The information shared in these
conversations and videos are intended
for general knowledge and entertainment
purposes only. It should not be
considered as legal advice or
professional guidance. Additionally, any
documentation or references to specific
content are solely for the purpose of
discussion and understanding. It does
not imply endorsement, promotion or
support of said content. The views
expressed in these videos and/or
conversation are those of the
individuals involved and do not
represent any official stance or
opinion. The content you are about to
experience may contain strong language
including explicit words and phrases.
This language is used for artistic
expression and may be integral to the
story line or character development. It
is important to note that the use of
such language does not endorse or
promote offensive behavior. Viewer
discretion is advised and please enjoy
the show responsibly. Disclaimer.
Copyright disclaimer under section 107
of the Copyright Act 1976. Allowances
made for fair use for purposes such as
criticism, comment, news reporting,
teaching, scholarship, education, and
research. The Canadian Copyright Act
section 29 allows an individual to use
copyright protected materials when
creating a new work such as a mashup and
to post the new work online on a site
like YouTube. Fair dealing provision for
specific purposes like research, private
study, education, parody, satire,
criticism, review, and news reporting.
>> No prep, no warning, no time to think.
Walking cold, stand your ground. Say
what you believe. No script, no notes,
no place to hide.
Red actions drop.
The room goes loud.
>> Two minds into one stance breaks.
>> No, no prep. NO PREP.
>> NO TOPIC, NO NO OPPONENT NAME. Just
pressure, just fire, just a bait.
NO,
>> no warm up, no safety net. You showed
up, NOW DEFEND IT.
THIS IS NO BASE.
This is no base.
Welcome everyone to another prep debate
tonight. It's Rob Noir versus a mystery
debater. And here's how it's going to
go. Um going to kick things off with a
quick intro clip uh to reveal our
mystery debater. Once that's done,
they're going to appear on the screen,
introduce themselves, their prompt, and
their stance, and then head straight
into their opening statement. Uh they'll
have about 10 minutes to get that off.
Uh then Rob will give his opening after
that, and we will move into about 2
hours of open floor. Uh at the 2hour
mark, I'll check to see if we want to
keep going. If we do, uh we'll extend
and check hourly. If not, uh we'll go to
closing statements. And then after
closings, uh, if time allows and energy
allows, uh, we'll take some of the
audience uh, super chat questions. And,
uh, remember throughout the debate, all
the super chats will be highlighted live
on screen. So, if you want to join the
action, drop those super chats in. So,
uh, with that being said, let's dive
right into this.
>> Who's that debater?
How's it?
>> How's it everybody? How's it going? For
for those that don't know, Chris
Strange. Uh I want to thank Speak Easy
for hosting and Rob No for being an
absolute weapon of a debater. Uh walking
in the ring unprepared, you know. Also,
massive thanks for everybody that showed
up to come and watch this tonight.
Appreciate y'all. Um you guys can find
me anywhere, everywhere on social media.
I mostly stream on YouTube under the
name Chris LA Strange. No connection to
the gay one in California. All right. I
do a different type of show every day of
the week. One of those is in my
workshop. Make stuff POV cam. Most of
the rest is comedy based. Um go sub up.
I'm almost at a thousand. Be cool to
break the the four digits. Uh I I'm a
dirty African bu redneck, but um I'm
here to attempt my own argument for a
field I have some experience in and also
a lot of worry about its impact on
society. So, let's begin. Uh, is art
objective or subjective? Uh, I'll be
team objective. Uh, a lot of Yeah.
>> And you can get right into your opening
statement with that.
>> All right. So, um, yeah. So, I'll be
team objective. A lot of societal issues
get discussed, but for some reason, art
seems to be to not be talked about. um
how it's been degenerated and destroyed
by institutions and its massive impact
on humanity. So um I'm basically here to
present my hierarchy of art and its
objectivity debate. Um so I'll start it
off with the the fundamental foundation
that that I'm working off with this
would be um the oldest definition Greek
um definition for for art would be
techni uh techn or techni uh the Greek
term for art or craft or technique or
skill. The philos the philosophical
interest in techni stems from its use as
a model or metaphor for all aspects of
practical rationality um including its
perfection in philosophy and leading us
to technique and where we get technology
from. Right those words and then it also
kind of spawned functionalism created
with a specific often functional or
ritualistic purpose rather than just an
aesthetic appreciation.
Um this is then carried over to Latin R
or artist um which gives us obviously
art or artisan. Um I have my own
definition which is based on the
structure of the original Greek um and
the Latin to to propose for today's
fight. Right? So um my definition that
that I've drawn is a human utilizing a
learned skill craft uh skill or craft to
create a desired outcome. Um, I've in
previous debates from low IIQ people had
authoritative critiques um because I
have a stupid mustache. So, for this
debate, even though I shouldn't have to,
um, I'll lay it out quick. I have over
15 years of experience as a Hollywood
physical effects artist on movie series.
Um, I'm a master mold maker. This title
I did not give myself. This was given to
me by probably one of the most skilled
American mold makers that has created
all of the nostalgia and movies that
pretty much everybody knows. Um he's in
a in a way as a mentor to me but he has
said that I should use the title as he
has critiqued my work. So master mold
maker, casting technician uh was a
composite specialist and a senior
fabricator by trade. Um let me just see.
Yeah, by trade. Okay. Um, after being in
other people's workshop, I started my
own. My workshop specializes in
reproducing sculptures of all sizes,
statues, all of these things for some of
the biggest artists and galleries in my
country. My workshop has also done
projects in prototyping for medical
prosthetics, medical devices, motor
vehicle parts, firearms manufacturing,
um, optometry, dentistry, and um,
architecture restoring old churches.
um and various projects in different
fields because of my unique skill set.
No matter the field or the project, they
all had commonality. In my biggest
briefs, execution and final assessment
of my work delivered was judged on
objective metrics. All artisan skill
sets and work must abide ultimately by
sets and work abide ultimately by
objective metrics. They are defined or
categorized by foundational criteria or
metrics. This is how everything from
writing, metallergy, drawing,
engineering, architecture are all based
on learned skill sets or crafts. This
repetition, creative um innovation has
led to all the innovations we see in
science and the modern world. Um it has
shaped human society at every point of
our history. The modern institutions
attempt to morph art into subjective
nonsense that is based on emotions and
feelings is a perversion of human
achievement and a direct correlation
that has led to the cultural decline of
society and beauty by abandoning the
foundation it was built on.
>> All right,
>> thank you for that opening statement.
And uh with that, we're going to give it
back to you. Uh Rob, whenever you're
ready, uh I'll start the timer up with
your voice.
>> Okay, so first off, thank you so much
for being here, Chris. I'm a fan. It's
nice to talk to you. Finally, someone
with better facial hair than me on here,
which is amazing. So, I have a
confession to make. Uh someone said I
looked worried halfway through this. It
wasn't worry, it was confusion. And this
is going to sound extremely racist or
maybe just uh you know nationalist of me
but um I couldn't understand your accent
and I [__] you not I have it WRITTEN
DOWN HERE. I THOUGHT THE TOPIC was is o
u ght
objective or subjective. So like some
claim of truth, right? And so I'm
writing down like answers to this until
30 seconds left. I looked and saw that
it says, "Are there objective standards
for judging art?" SO I I APOLOGIZE. I
THOUGHT YOU WERE SAYING, not art. So if
you give me a second to wrap my head
around this. SO YOUR CLAIM IS, let's
just see. Is that the specific topic
there or is your topic something more
akin to art is objective? Good art is
objective. Is that basically what you're
saying? So yeah, it's obviously a
question. So I'll jump in. So yes, my my
claim is that what we designate the
title to as art that is purely based
objectively. There's no subjectiveness
to it. There's no emotionality to it.
It's all objective. The what we
attribute art to. Okay, thank you. All
right, that's good then. Fine. I got it.
I think that you're going to be wrong
about this in particularly the way you
frame it there that you say it is purely
objective. I THINK THAT I'LL BE ABLE to
convince you and certainly the audience,
although we may agree or disagree as to
objective metrics that are used in the
interpretation of art. Clearly, there is
a room for subjectivity as well. And
because your affirmative is that it is
quote purely objective, that's going to
come across as untrue because alls I
have to do is prove that there are any
subjective implications whatsoever in
the judging or criteria for art that
will disprove your thesis. So the first
thing I'll say is this. Even if we
accept within a discipline that there
are objective metrics, for example, if I
say in this particular zone of music or
style of music, here's objectively what
makes it good. I'm into death metal. So,
here is what would objectively make
someone who's a good death metal. We
would still see a subjective
interpretation on which genres would be
considered a higher art. FOR EXAMPLE, I
choose to think most rap music sucks
ass. However, I could also say THAT I
UNDERSTAND PEOPLE'S SUBJECTIVE belief
that there are objectively good metrics
within rap music that shows that there's
some sort of objective talent. For
example, oftentimes the vocabulary of
many of these people that use rap are
fascinating and immensely better than
anything I would be able to do. Yet,
subjectively, I would think this is
trash. And there's a lot of people that
would AGREE WITH ME. THE IDEA TO SAY
THAT NO, we would have to say that
there's some sort of objective measure.
Again, it may be true within rap and
saying if we're just analyzing this
specific hyper specific group, this is
objectively what's good or not. The
problem is there are so many hierarchies
and so many groups that which one you
prefer will be subjective. Let me give
you an example. It would be easier to
see how this is done through like cross
disciplines. FOR EXAMPLE, I COULD SAY I
FIND THE HIGHEST FORM OF art to be
architecture because I think that there
is both an artistic beauty to it that
we've seen throughout history that is
awe inspiring. So much so that unlike
paintings and other forms of things,
people will literally travel across the
world to see famous architecture like
the Notradam Cathedral, the Eiffel
Tower, right? ALL OF THESE THINGS,
RIGHT? BUT IT ALSO HAS A PRACTICAL
nature to it. These things unlike a
painting also have to be able to provide
support for the people that will be in
there, for the function that the
building WILL HAVE. SO I CHOOSE to think
that subjectively, in my opinion, the
highest form of art in order to be
obtained WOULD BE ARCHITECTURE. SOMEONE
may completely disagree FOR A LOT OF M
THEY MAY say it may be music. Music is a
higher form of art than architecture
because music universally could reach
the entire world at one time. You don't
have to travel. It could come to you.
YOU COULD UTILIZE it anytime you want.
Who amongst us is able to say which of
those arguments IS RIGHT. THERE IS NO
OBJECTIVE FORMULA. In fact, it's almost
the antithesis of what art is to claim
that there's just no here's the
objective formula. Here's the criteria
we would use to decide which one is more
artistic and therefore which one's
objectively better.
Interdisciplinarianly wise, we would see
that subjectivity is going to play the
role. Which proves that when it comes to
art and whether or not it is good or
not, it is not purely objective because
if you have a subjective disinterest and
many people do, then we would say well
therefore it didn't deem as good. The
next thing we have to say is what is
meant by the definition of good? Is it
skilled? For example, you could have
someone who's technically VERY SKILLED.
I'LL GO TO music because even though I'm
not much of a musician, I played French
horn in high school. I'm not much of a
musician, that's probably what I would
consider art that I comes to my mind for
whatever reason. There could be people
that play incredibly skilled,
technically sound instruments. And there
could be four of them together PLAYING
THE MOST DIFFICULT COMPOSITION
IMAGINABLE. AND IT MAY BE UTTER DOG
[__] All of them is playing something
skilled, but the arrangement itself is
composed in a way that's not pleasing to
the majority of people's ears. If a
couple of music critics sit around and
say, "This is the most impressive
technical m piece of music I've ever
heard." My goodness, who's who are they
to say that the average person is wrong,
that their subjective interpretation
that it's not good is incorrect?
Furthermore, the idea of good implies
something itself. Who gets to decide
what good is? I'll give you another
example. based on music. One of my
favorite bands is a band called Wean.
They have an album called Pure Guava.
Now, Pure Guava is, I think, an
excellent album, but it's weird as [__]
So, I have a friend that was a mutual,
he actually introduced me to Wean. He
goes into college one day and he's got a
meet with this uh professor in
psychiatry department. He sits down and
notices the Pure Guava CD on the
psychiatrist desk and he's like, "Oh,
you're a wean fan. That's excellent."
And the professor's like, "You like that
CD?" And he's like, "Yes, of course. We
fit desk man." He says, "We're doing an
experiment where we play that CD in the
background to make people FEEL
UNCOMFORTABLE." NOW, TO MY FRIEND, THIS
IS AN AMAZING piece of art. To other
people, it was utilized in a TOTALLY
DIFFERENT WAY. IF I use a piece of art
that may on some aspects be considered
technically not that good, it didn't use
proper techniques. If you were judging
it, you might say, "I don't think this
is very high art." but it's used in a
specific context to get a specific
emotion or a specific interpretation.
WHO IS TO SAY THAT THAT'S NOT GOOD? IN
OTHER WORDS, THE INTERPRETATION OF WHAT
GOOD IS itself can be subjective at
times? FOR EXAMPLE, IS A painting that's
not technically sound but inspires
people to a nationalist call that
rallies people around a certain thing,
would we say that that was good art? If
a kid stands up who lost his father in
911 and passionately sings the national
anthem, but it's absolute garbage from A
TECHNICAL STANDPOINT, IS THAT GOOD ART?
I would SAY YES. I WOULD SAY THAT not
only is the criteria for what makes it
good subjective, but the idea of good
itself can be deemed to be subjective.
One person could listen to the person
who the national anthem and say, "I
don't understand the context. I don't
know who that KID WAS. THAT'S DOG SHIT."
BUT THE PERSON WHO WAS THERE at the
situation could say you have no idea the
emotions that brought forth. And it's
not necessary that even bringing forth
emotion itself is necessary for good
art. There often times could be art that
we say leads to some SORT OF STOICISM.
THEN IF WE GET even deeper into this and
I somehow would lose all of THOSE
ARGUMENT. THE IDEA of even in a specific
discipline objectively what are the
standards to make something good art? I
think that there is probably some base
level of truth to that. For example, if
you are a master moulder, I believe you
said, right? Uh, okay. I WOULD GUESS
THAT IF I GOT THE 10 most impressive
critics of this in a room, THEY WOULD
SAY, LOOK, THERE'S A BASE [__] LEVEL
THAT'S NECESSARY before we would say
this is good. BUT AT THE TOP LEVEL, THE
JUDGING CRITERIA WOULD BE DIFFERENT.
I'LL BET IF I HAD FIVE PIECES from
competent MOLDERS AND THE BEST FIVE
JUDGES IN THE WORLD IN THAT field to
look at them, they would not rank them
all the same one through five. They
wouldn't. THEY WOULD HAVE SUBJECTIVE
INTERPRETATIONS in how to apply the
OBJECTIVE RULES. NOW, YOU MIGHT SAY,
"AH, BUT THAT PROVES THAT THERE'S SOME
SORT OF OBJECTIVE CRITERIA TO THAT. I
LARGELY CONCEDE." Or rather say it's not
necessary that I push back on it. Maybe
that's true, maybe it's not. BUT FOR THE
SAKE OF THIS ARGUMENT, I'll concede it.
And it may very well be true. The
problem is your phrasing of the topic is
it must be PURELY OBJECTIVE. AND I THINK
THAT it's self-defeating because if you
CONCEDE THAT FIVE DIFFERENT JUDGES WHO
ARE competent in the FIELD COULD JUDGE
FIVE DIFFERENT PIECES OF ART IN
different orders of which is best, it
proves that there's something more than
objectivity going. OR YOU WOULD HAVE to
say only one of those judges is
objectively correct, which I just don't
think it's the case. So for those
multiple reasons, I would say no. I
don't think it's purely objective to
judge good art. I think that there's
subjectivity in which disciplines we
like most, which proves that it's not
objective. That there are different
contexts of what good means, which means
that there's subjective nature into it.
And even if we accept one discipline,
there would be different professionals
in it that would come to different
criteria even if they thought there was
a level of objectivity necessary. So
that's it. That's my opening statement.
>> All right. So, that is going to be the
opening statements. From here, we're
going to move into open floor. We have
uh two hours total. Uh there's going to
be no running clock on the screen. Just
engage directly and uh at the 2our mark,
I'll step in, ask whether you'd like to
continue or move into closings. Um I'll
be staying out of it for the most part
unless we go like way off the rails or
it gets to the point where we can't hear
you over each other or something like
this. Um other than that, I'm going to
let you guys go. all the super chats as
well. Chat, uh, super chats will be
highlighted throughout the debate and if
time and energy allow at the end, uh,
we'll go through as many of them as we
can during a Q&A. Uh, with that said,
open floor whenever you guys want to get
into it. Go ahead.
>> Yeah. So, I I do apologize that I
thought it was this claim. I'm like,
[__] here we go. It's some philosophy
[__] that I'm But no, it's it's an
interesting topic. So,
>> let's
>> No. Well, well, it it does fundamentally
boil down to philosophy. That's the
important thing. So, yes, obviously I
understand with this there's a tall
order behind this, especially on my end,
right? No bad desk. Um, so, but I've put
put some thought into this. So, you you
kept saying good good is a is a metric
of my opinion of something, right? Art
art is a designated category of
something. So if there's there's there
can be a crazy person that disputes an
apple is an apple, but objectively it's
an apple, right?
If if if if we look at something, we
would say, well, this is an apple. Some
wacko could say it's a banana, but it's
still an apple.
>> So So I I don't really care about the
criteria of how you feel about art. I
could hate an art piece, but it could it
it it would be the metric of it is
objectively art by the skill set. Like I
said in in my description I mean
>> so then it is not your point isn't this
that we don't look and say is that
painting behind you good and the
question YOU DON'T TAKE A STANCE on that
you just say is it a painting is it art
>> no well see now there's there's
something interesting right so there is
subjective subjective
nature to let's say what what do we
consider a drawing is a line on a piece
of paper is that a drawing or art. Yeah.
In in in that sense, what what
contributes a drawing as a lower order
tier, but the higher order tier, right?
Art has a specific kind of relation
behind it, especially in in the old
sense. That's why I brought up the old
definition. So a lot a lot of where this
argument comes from is I have to break
down all the way back because why this
got formed is because I believe there's
a fundamental deterioration of this
entire field that has come through many
years right that to the point of where
it's it's pretty much been distilled
into just pure [__] but taking it
back to its original sense art would
have this higher order category of what
is defined as art and What falls under
that category I believe is objective.
How you feel about it I don't care
about. I that that has no bearing on it.
So that's why I said specifically.
>> Go. Yeah.
>> Yeah.
>> Go. No. Cuz here's my question. Let's
distill it down TO ONE JUST SO I COULD
GET A CLARIFICATION. LET'S DISTILL IT
DOWN. SO LET'S SAY A PAINTING, RIGHT?
Paintings are a category of things that
can be art. So I put paint to a canvas.
When is it art? What are the criteria
for when it is art? when it's not just a
painting but it becomes art.
>> So okay so I gave my definition it's a
human employing a learned skilled craft
to create a desired outcome. So, so the
objective determination for this
remember we have we we we have objective
metrics for for art itself right I mean
we have core fundamentals for these
things because ultimately like I said
this is this is what spawn technology so
so where we go we we have drifted into
this mental scape of all this [__]
nonsense is considered art because it's
it's a it's the what is a woman type of
situation we have gone so astray with
what definitions relate to that now we
don't even know what a woman is anymore
and I feel we've done the same thing
with art there are elements to art line
shape form color value space texture
there's fundamental criteria for these
things so a skilled person that
replicates a painting how you feel about
it or whatever the whatever the criteria
is if somebody who is skilled that
understands these things looks at
something they can objectively say yes
high level of skill set proficiency
these things were attributed to this
This is art because it's at the high end
spectrum of what a human can produce. We
can do this with any field and say can
only 5% of the population do what I'm
looking at. Yes. Cool. It's art.
>> Okay.
>> That's it's as simple as that.
>> So let's the let's start with this. The
definition you said is a learned craft
to create a desired outcome.
>> Yes.
>> Okay.
>> Yes. There has to be time.
>> My son is five. Yes.
>> And he's learning to draw. And now I can
show you. Here's one of my son's
drawings. He made it into a mouse pad
for me, right? Yes. That's That's I'm
blue. That's my wife. That's my dog,
Dorothy. He's down here. Is that art?
>> Nope.
>> Why not?
>> It's not a repeater. It's not a He
doesn't have a learned skill set.
>> He's doing to create.
>> He did. He started off. He wasn't even
able to make stick figures. He learned
after practice. He learned how to better
make stick figures and everything.
>> Yes.
>> So why isn't that learned? It might be a
low level but it's something he learned.
>> Yeah. So, so what so how it works is
right yes you can you can attribute that
to it right but in the objective metrics
right line form shape composition
anybody that looks at that that
understands these fundamentals will say
no this does not abide by any of that
criteria. Okay, but what is but again
even then line form etc that can't be
definitionally to art because there are
forms of art that don't utilize any of
that
>> go which ones
>> which one don't follow objective metrics
>> well that don't follow those objective
metrics
>> well there's there's there's multiple
different things you want to go with
music balance movement rhythm pattern
contrast unity emphasis there's
>> what makes it art is the understanding
like what if I intend potentially
subvert it.
>> Is it hard?
>> You can you you can you can subvert you
can subvert these things, right? But if
there's not a measured highlevel
proficiency to the skill set that's
being used, it cannot hold the title of
art. So your son's drawing is not art,
it's a drawing. There's a difference
between a drawing and an art piece. We
can agree to that, right?
>> Well, is all drawings art?
>> No, I think that it would be subjective
in the standard of the viewer, right? I
think that what would separate art would
be something that evokes feeling within
the person that's viewing it, right? So,
for example, an AI print that you print
out on a thousand shirts, we might not
say is art, right? Because we'd say that
doesn't evoke some human emotion, right?
>> It's inherently not art if you want to
talk about AI.
>> Well, okay, we can get to that later. I
don't mind. Well, I'm here for all
night, so whatever. BUT BUT THE point is
but the point is like if that evokes if
this evokes emotion I don't see why we
wouldn't consider a form of let's see if
we can GET DEEPER INTO IT. LET'S SAY
LET'S GO BACK TO THE times of I believe
you talked initially about the Greeks.
>> Yes. So the the Greeks Yes.
>> OKAY. AT THE TIME OF THE GREEKS THERE
ARE contemporaries around the world that
would have never met the Greeks, right?
Did they have art?
>> Yes.
>> So yes. So, so it's it's got to have
some kind of right a learned skill set
or some kind of actual meaning or basis
in which this thing is determined as it
has a value to hold the title of art.
>> But who gets to determine value?
>> The it it would be on an objective
metric because like I said if we if we
go it's subjective because I
subjectively say it's subjective. We're
just making a circular argument right
now. So the the the point is is your
emotion regarding something is is that a
valid metric to judge it by? That's what
I'm saying. It's not it's not
>> but objective implies. Now again, right,
you even if you would win that argument,
which I'm not conceding yet, but even if
you won that, your argument would have
to be be that there's no room for
objectivity. So for example, let's say
at the times of uh let's see if I could
screen share something here. Um,
I'm trying to get something. [__] Is
this art?
Let me see if I could do this. Uh,
now I don't have the Forgive me for I
just Google searched something, so
forgive me if
>> this isn't as uh
>> Let's see if I can screen share this.
>> And you're more than willing to critique
it on anything, right? You can use any
of the seven major forms of art.
Painting, sculpture, architecture,
literature, cinema, theater, music, you
know, all of these things are the
>> Do you want me to bring that up?
>> Yeah. Yeah. Is that art?
>> Yes.
>> Why?
>> Do you know why?
>> Yeah. I'm asking you why. Explain why.
>> Cultural significance.
>> What if the Greeks would have looked at
that and said line, shape, form? This is
all [__] If someone in our culture, the
>> objective metric that makes that art is
firstly historical significance.
Historical significance and cultural
cultural capsule that encapsulates a
culture. So it's history. It's a
documentation of culture. It's got
objective metrics very old. It's got
objective metrics that make it art. It's
not about the drawing. The drawing
doesn't mean [__] that's on there.
>> But you said that art was shape, form,
lines, color theory, [__] like that.
people if the
>> multiple matrix we can objective matrix
we judge things by
>> but that's that can't be because you
just said two of the metrics you would
put there I would put in the completely
subjective category for example HISTORY
AND CULTURE BY THE SAME token like I
could say that anything that sells a lot
right now in the entertainment industry
is art because it's culturally
significant.
How do how does that give it cultural
significance because
>> you just said that that piece right
there because it had cultural
significance that that would deem it as
art?
>> What what did I say that the cultural
significance of it is that it has a
historical value?
>> Well, what wouldn't the historical value
be at this point in time? LIKE LET'S SAY
THAT I CREATE SOME AI song and it
becomes the bestselling song in the
world, RIGHT? AND FOR FIVE YEARS, YOU
HEAR EVERY TIME YOU'RE OUT AT THE CLUB
AND THEY PLAY IT AT THE SUPER BOWL AND
THEY PLAY IT WHEN THE PRESIDENT, you
know, they play Hell to the Chief in the
in 2028 election and then they play this
song. That's cultural significance.
That's historical significance
undoubtedly. Is it art?
>> No. Well, no. Well, f firstly, I mean,
if you if you bring up AI, we can we can
attack we can we can do this. AI is not
art. There's no human involved and it's
and it's creating on its own. So it
definitionally art is a is a human
characteristic. That's why it's
specifically in my thing a human making.
>> Okay. But even then say then SAY FOR
WHATEVER REASON I PUT TOGETHER A PIECE
THAT you're like this is objectively
[__] It goes against you clearly have
no [__] clue what's going on with
music. It's clearly objective
>> [__] ANYONE WHO KNOWS ANYTHING
ABOUT music would look at this and go
this is dog [__] And yet it reaches all
the same high marks that I just said. Is
it now art?
>> No. Again, the same way most most people
we can go a majority of people say that
a man can be a woman.
>> Objectively, they're [__] wrong.
They're wrong.
>> Okay. But what I'm asking is given that
you said that there's historical, even
if something looks very shitty and it's
very rudimentary to art critiques of the
day. For example, the Greeks who had in
my opinion, right, I'm allowed to have
an opinion because I believe it's
subjective, but in my opinion, I think
that the art that was around in Greek
AND ROMAN ERA FAR SURPASSES the African
art we see, right? And yet, when it
comes to like all sorts of things like
like their paintings, their sculptures,
the technical expertise, the learned
nature, the history of like sort of the
tradition of, you know, building upon
the people that came before you, I think
the Greek AND ROMAN ARE FAR SUPERIOR.
AND YET YOU WOULD SAY, "But that African
art's still art." BECAUSE EVEN THOUGH
HAD IT BEEN made in Greece, it would
have been laughed out as not art.
Objectively,
>> it's still considered art because
>> objectively
>> because Well, no. Your claim is
objectively it would have been laughed
out and not called art.
>> No, no, no. Not objectively.
>> They would have found they would have
found your
>> They would have found value in that. A
lot of cultures took each other's
trophies and objects.
>> No, that's I'm saying if a Greek had
made that.
>> Yes.
>> That that objectively the Greek artists
and artisans at the time would SAY
THAT'S [__]
>> THAT'S NOT
>> YEAH. BUT BUT BUT now it doesn't it it
it for the Greeks no it would not have
been right. If a Greek made a similar
thing it's because the objective nature
of it is its origin. Its origin its
chemical composition what clay was used.
these things that relay a technological
value
a geological uh but then you're you're
going to run a foul you run a foul of
the example I just gave where you said
that my song that becomes the biggest
song in the world that by the standards
of today is objectively [__] that it
still wouldn't be considered art but
historically it would 20 years from now
when they're like this great revolution
happened this song played and the Super
Bowl happened and this song played and
this song was a rallying cry it does not
matter that it [__] was objectively
according according to you, not art
based on the composition. The cultural
significance that it took on would mean
that it's now art.
>> No. Well, so so now Well, that's just a
slippery slope. That's saying, well, in
20 years,
>> that's your slope.
>> That's what you're saying about Africa.
>> Well, that's that's that's that's
um that's post hawk, right?
>> How much do you know about African art?
Just curious.
I I know
>> you do. I'll take your word for it, but
can you explain to me? Could I show you
like if I show you 10 things like this?
>> Uh I shared that again. If I showed you
10 pictures like this, would you be able
to tell me if five were art and five
weren't?
>> Rob, can I tell you something? So to so
to quickly put a nail in this, a chunk
of concrete from from from the the
Greeks, right? or the or Roman concrete,
a chunk of [__] concrete from that
time because it has a technological
value because it can self-heal the
concrete. That is [__] art cuz it's a
technological marvel what they achieved
by making self-healing concrete. So that
chunk of concrete now today we go [__]
this is a piece of this is a piece of
artisan
craft that is amazing. How did they
[__] do this? Because we can't do
this.
>> So it doesn't matter. Let me not bury
the lead. What I'm saying is when you
talk about historical and cultural
importance, I think you give the game
away because we could even see when it
comes to just straight history, not in
the world of art, what is considered
historically significant is often times
very subjective from person to person,
from culture to culture, right? And so
the point I'm trying to make is
reasonable people could say that the
song that me and you think [__] that
became the biggest song in the world
might be dog [__] and not qualify as
high art or art whatsoever according to
our taste. And yet if ENOUGH PEOPLE SAY
NO I FEEL THAT IT'S CULTURALLY
significant and one of the criteria that
makes something art is that it has
significant cultural significance. If
culture itself is subjective and the
interpretation of it what is significant
is SUBJECTIVE THEN ART ITSELF has a
subjective nature.
>> It well it wouldn't have cultural
significance in the sense of of because
we have enough documentation about this
culture. It would have zero cultural
significance because we have direct
documentation of this culture. You would
have to make an argument for why it does
have cultural significance. What happens
in the future is slippery slope. Why we
attribute value to things from the past
is because it documents the past.
>> I don't care about what happens in the
future. Cool. We when we get there, we
can talk about that. But right now, we
have we attribute value to ancient
things. Because it documents a time
there was no documentation.
>> That makes it hard.
>> That's subjective, RIGHT? THERE WAS
THERE WAS DOCUMENTATION back then. There
wasn't as much IN AFRICA. BUT NOW
there's a Where did the Africans write
[__] down?
>> But
>> it's not what Well, again, it depends on
what you mean by documentation. It's not
just writing [__] down.
>> What do we have except for pottery with
regard to documentation and cultures?
>> Yes.
>> Okay.
>> That also has a value. That's why those
things are
>> protected. But the idea But this is a
threshold. This is sort of becomes a
subjectivity based on threshold. Well,
if enough written down there's objective
matrix what gives value to
>> No, not about how people feel about how
the drawing looks. No, that doesn't mean
nothing.
>> No, no, that doesn't mean that it's art.
That means that it's historical.
You have to give me a chance. You have
to give me a chance to talk. Right.
Right. So, the idea is now you're
saying, well, there's historical value.
Therefore, it's art. Even a piece of
concrete could be art because of the
historical value. But that DOESN'T MAKE
IT ART. THAT JUST MAKES IT VALUABLE to
give an insight of what was going on
there. Right? When we say but there was
cultural significance to it that becomes
subjective. NOW YOU SEEM TO ADD A NEW
CRITERIA. WELL, IT'S BECAUSE WE DIDN'T
HAVE A lot of other things that were
culturally significant at the time
whereas now we do. I THINK THAT THAT'S
SORT OF CHANGING the goalpost and I
think your original let me I think your
original interpretation is more correct
which is that if enough people in
society say this thing that was made
right it it we qualify as art because
there's meaning here. there's meaning
even if we don't think that it's
technically masterful, right? And we say
like in the context of music for example
in this that there are you know tonality
and there's rhythm and these are all the
things that you would have to have
technical proficiency before we
considered art even though this piece is
lacking OF IT. THE FACT THAT IT INSPIRED
SUCH cultural momentum would itself put
it in the category of art. AND I THINK
THAT BECAUSE and I think you're correct
about that interpretation, we would have
a subjective view of what that would be
that would meet that cultural criteria
that it shows that art is subjective.
>> Okay. So firstly, I I did you're
correct. I did mention cultural
significance, right? But it it was in
the sense of cultural significance
because of historical value. So because
there's a lack of documentation of said
culture, the main value it has is not
its cultural significance, but a
documentation of the culture. So
historic value is the objective metric
that gives it value. The drawings in the
cave are [__] Everybody thinks they're
[__] It doesn't matter. But because of
its historical significance, that's why
it's art. Because the skill set employed
is a very rare skill set. We don't have
a lot of it. Gives it value. objectively
not.
>> Okay, but then forget about historical,
right? Let's go back to that example of
African art once more. You concede you
concede that the Greeks, if the Greeks
didn't know where that came from. You
just have a master pottery artisan. He
sees that pottery would say, "This is
dog [__] This isn't art based on what I
say is the necessary knowledge and
skills necessary before I would consider
a piece of pottery ART." YOU WOULD
ACKNOWLEDGE THAT'S most likely what the
Greeks would have said WHEN IT COMES TO
JUST THE SKILL LEVEL AND THE
presentation of that African piece of
art.
>> Well, see see it it depends. It so that
that specific one
>> IT'S STARTING TO SOUND MIGHTY SUGGESTIVE
THAT IT DEPENDS.
>> Well well well I mean we we're I mean we
we're giving a hypothetical art piece.
So you're talking about that specific
>> the SPECIFIC ONE I SHOWED YOU?
>> The specific one? Yeah. So that would be
historical documentation that gives that
>> not if it's contemporary. Now it's not
historical.
>> Literally some merchant some merchant
traveled to subsaharan Africa and then
two years later he travels back up to
Greece and here's this pot. It's only a
2-year-old pot and the artisans in
Greece LOOKING TO GO, "THIS IS DOG [__]
THIS SUCKS. IF ANYONE MADE THIS IN OUR
SCHOOL, WE'D SAY this isn't art. This is
DOG SHIT." THAT'S WHAT THEY WOULD SAY
RIGHT AT THAT POINT. THERE'S NO
HISTORICAL SIGNIFICANCE to that pot. It
was just made two years ago.
>> Yeah. If a present day person
looks at something that's present day,
it lacks historical value because it's
present day.
>> That's my point. So then it wouldn't
have been So then IT WOULDN'T HAVE BEEN
ART AT THAT POINT.
>> At that point, no.
>> OKAY, GREAT. SO THAT AFRICAN POT THAT I
SHOWED YOU AT the time it was made
wouldn't have been considered art based
on the people that were experts of the
day. Mhm.
>> Okay. Now, let's say that same pot at
that same time in history was made in a
village THAT NEVER HAD ANY CONTACT
WHATSOEVER WITH THE Greeks and THIS IS
THE BEST POTTERY THAT THAT VILLAGE EVER
PUT OUT. IS IT ART?
>> YES. FUNCTIONALLY, in that sense,
actually it would be see if it's if it's
the highest level of achievement of that
tribe, right? Then it would be a higher
order skill set that makes it that makes
it art. BUT IT'S SUBJECTIVE THEN IN THE
EYE OF THE person that's interpreting
it. IT WOULD NOT BE THE VERY DEFINITION
THAT THE TWO DIFFERENT people it could
be considered art and not art proves
that it's subjective. THE GREEK WOULD
SAY IT'S NOT ART. THE AFRICAN WOULD SAY
IT is art. Therefore it's And you're
SAYING THEY'RE BOTH RIGHT. THAT PROVES
THAT IT'S SUBJECTIVE.
>> You are going so so based on subjective
people's opinions. It's subjective.
>> No. If it is just one objective metric,
it is either art or it's not. Then it
must be that way for everyone. If
different people come to different
conclusions by its very nature it's
subjective.
So if if they use that right they would
have let's say now cool they African
tribe they got this and they go this is
the best that the this tribe can produce
these Greeks take it they took trophies
often um even if they could do better
things than that it still has the value
because it's the highest um in in skill
and technique that the artisans of that
culture can produce that's would make it
art. NO, BUT THAT AGAIN subjective
determination that's subjective. First
off, the Greeks wouldn't even know that.
How would they [__] KNOW THE GREEK
GUY THAT'S JUST LOOKING AT THE POT NOW?
WHETHER OR NOT SOMETHING'S ART,
>> he has to know the entire culture and
know
>> how good that is compared TO THE OTHER
PEOPLE THAT that seems nonsensical. That
seems
>> lack of lack of knowledge leads to
subjective nonsense. I agree. NO, BUT
AGAIN, IF IF if it is objective, then a
person could look and they would be able
to say, "Okay, it's objective." So, I
merely follow these metrics and I could
determine whether this is art or not.
AND NOW YOU'RE SAYING THINGS LIKE,
"WELL, NO, YOU CAN'T DO THAT BECAUSE YOU
HAVE TO if you look at that and you say,
"This sucks. THIS WOULDN'T BE ART." BUT
THEN I SAID, "BUT THIS WAS FROM A TRIBE
THAT NEVER HAD OUTSIDE CONTEXT." And as
far as we know, based on, you know, the
10 pieces of art we saw, this was as
[__] as it is, IT WAS THE BEST. AND THEN
YOU'RE LIKE, "OH, NEVER MIND." THEN IT'S
ART. IF TWO different people,
>> well, yes, then it would be right. I I
need to know like metrics behind this.
If we're just using hypotheticals, then
it it will fall into the realm of just
subjective. Is it this or is it not
this? But like I said, a piece of
concrete could if it has some
technological value in in showing a
higher order skill set. these to to to
to determine what something is, you have
to analyze it, right?
>> There has to be some analysis towards
>> I agree. BUT THE PROBLEM IS YOU'VE
ALREADY GIVEN THE GAME AWAY, RIGHT? SO
NOW YOU'RE SAYING initially initially
when the the Greek artist looks at the
African stuff and says this is [__] We
don't qualify this as art. HE WOULD BE
MISTAKEN IF SOMEONE WOULD SAY BUT WAIT
BUT WAIT although that may be true in
Greek culture for this particular
African country we think this is the
best. THEN HE WOULD SAY NEVER MIND IT'S
ART THEN.
>> YES. Lack of knowledge leads to
subjective determinations. Yes, I agree
with that.
>> No, it's again. So explain to me in any
definition you have of art whatsoever.
>> Yes.
>> Of objective where it talks about your
subjective interpretation of the
historical importance of that piece.
The historical significance of something
is is objectively determined by either a
a lack of historical documentation of
it. It's the same way that even [__]
scrolls are preserved if they have
historical value,
>> but that doesn't make them art.
>> It does.
>> That makes them historically
significant.
>> Yes. And documenting history and writing
is an art form. It's one of the forms of
art. Writing is a form of art. BUT NOT
EVERYTHING THAT'S WRITING THAT has
significance create a desired outcome.
>> That's not SO AGAIN, SO JUST to be clear
then,
>> would you say then that the first
MySpace post ever is art
>> historically significant?
>> It it's not. You're just attributing
historical significance objectively.
>> THAT'S I I MEAN A THOUSAND YEARS FROM
NOW THEY MIGHT SAY, "OH MY GOODNESS, the
first real prominent social media thing,
the first post of it."
>> Mhm. Why wouldn't that now be
historically significant?
>> What what what is the what is the the
the learned skill set for the desired
outcome of that thing? I mean
>> the learned skill set into like creating
social media and putting the first post
ever there
>> like Tom or whatever from MySpace.
>> Well then what well then what they see
the thing is we can talk about it but
with with technological stuff I don't I
don't I don't really like the digital
stuff. We can definitely go into it.
What's digital? Have anything What's
digital? If concrete matters and a
[__] rag matters.
>> Mhm. Like
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. No, I I hear what
you're saying. So yes, if it's the first
thing of its kind, Yes. then it would
then it would be considered art because
it is higher order skill set. It's the
first thing historical value attached to
it.
>> I don't think that I think that goes too
far. I think that there are things that
just aren't art that don't meet the
criteria of what art would be. Uh that
could be historically significant and be
the first of their kind, but we wouldn't
consider
>> subjective determination or objective
determination.
>> Well, I think that we would say I would
say subjectively, but I think that I
don't see a measure objectively that we
would consider it
>> like the first of its kind. Yes. Then it
would be right.
>> NO. SO LIKE EVERYTHING THE first of
everything the first butter knife is
art, the first hammer is art. The first
mouse is art. The first mouse pad is
art.
>> Rob, I understand. See, you're you're
influenced by the the the the gayness of
culture right now. And I'm going to I'm
going to I'm going to break you out of
this, Rob. Going to break you out of
this. You here? So, yes, a butter knife
would be a really well-made butter knife
is a piece of art because it it contains
metallurgy, blacksmithing, and a unique
craftsman that made that thing. You
might not think that it is art because
of subjective determinations, but with
the knowledge of what something is, we
objectively determine yes, this I
disagree under art. Certainly, I think
certainly we could say an artisan made
it and there's it can be a form of art,
right? But I don't think that we say
that every object that was ever created,
the first one is art. I don't think we
say that.
>> No,
>> I don't think by definition that that's
the case.
>> No, I'm not saying that either. Like I
said, it it has to at least fall in in a
context, right? It has to be analyzed in
the context, right? So something that
seems mundane now in its in its um in
its analysis in the cultural time or the
location that it was created will tell
you it's it's the same thing. If
somebody if a if an unconted tribe
builds a a [__] airplane, that would
be a piece of art that they did that of
human achievement, right? Well, it's
human achievement, but I don't
necessarily know that it's art.
>> You might say the design of the plane is
artistic, but that to just say that's
art in itself. I MEAN, IS THE FIRST
MOTHERBOARD ever created art? IS THE
FIRST GRAPHICS card ever created art?
>> Yes. Yes.
>> So, I see this little
>> the first of everything would fall under
that category. Human innovation.
>> The first LLM created his art.
>> No.
>> Why not? WHAT'S DIFFERENT ABOUT THAT?
Humans created it.
The first the first LLM. Why that's not
odd is because it is that's just code.
That's just code.
>> So what? THE FIRST CODE CREATED. WHY
ISN'T THAT?
>> YEAH, that is the first code. Yes.
>> Okay. So the first code
>> would be breakthrough technology.
>> Different codes with high order skill.
>> The first code. The first code that does
something that's historically
significant. Why wouldn't that be
considered art?
>> I don't I don't see the reason.
>> The first code. Yes. Because of
technological innovation. That would be
the first specific type of code of LLM.
Why wouldn't that be considered art?
>> Well, because then we have we have we
have pre-understanding of code and all
of these things. It's there's not really
a distinct nature to the LLM. It's
>> nonetheless. So, if the first knife is
art, does that mean the first sword
isn't? Because it's basically just a big
knife.
>> FIRST SWORD IS
>> WHY IT'S JUST THE BIG KNIFE.
>> WELL, it's it's distinctly different,
right?
>> So, LM codes distinctly different.
>> What makes LLM different than normal
code? because what it accomplish is
significantly different.
>> If it was basically the same, it would
have came out almost simultaneously.
>> Not really. It is. And it's it's the
same functionally as what other code
would do.
>> That's not true. Codes do massively
different things. But again, WE'RE
RUNNING A VALVE like sort of the
original point. IF WE GO BACK to your
original point like let me ask you this
then. Can something objectively not be
art today and does become art tomorrow?
>> I mean there is a possibility that that
could happen, right?
>> Okay. And what what does that look like?
How does that occur?
>> Well, that would that would occur if if
there's complete destruction and this
the skill set of some of what was
created is at a level that that that
most majority of the population cannot
cannot reproduce because it it would
require a learned skill set that
achieved the desired outcome. So if the
desired outcome is is something unique
then that would attribute it to
especially if it's an older thing and
then you move forward in history or move
>> I don't know that that so just to be
CLEAR SO IF THAT'S THE interpretation if
some amateur makes something and it ends
up having historical significance
>> right like uh that wouldn't be
considered art
>> some what are they creating
>> well let's say they create a gun
>> yes RIGHT. AND IT'S [__] IT'S NOT
AESTHETICALLY PLEASING. RIGHT. But guns
could be art, correct?
>> Yes.
>> Okay. And this is the gun that was used
to shoot Lincoln. Is it art?
>> Yeah. Historical value. Yes.
>> Okay. So, was it art the day before it
shot Lincoln? But the day after it shot
Lincoln,
>> time to progress for something to have
historical value. Correct.
>> Okay. So, then what your So, your
acknowledgement is that it could be that
it's aesthetically pleasing based on
line form. what the experts of the day
say. Yes. Or it could not be those
things but then
>> involved in something that makes it
>> historically significant and then it
becomes art.
>> Yes. So obviously
>> who gets to decide when something's
historically is significant enough if it
becomes art?
>> Well Well do we do we do we distinguish
between whether something is
historically significant or not?
>> Well that's my point. You're saying it
there is a level of historical
significance that can make something
art. Who gets to decide that level of
its significance?
>> Time and rarity.
>> Okay. But who gets to decide there? For
example, if it is Rob Noir who's a
streamer, here's the notepad he used for
debating people, right? Most people
would say if I go on, LET'S SAY I GO ON
TO BECOME SENATOR, THIS STILL ISN'T art
because I wasn't significant enough. So,
it wouldn't be art. BUT SOME PEOPLE
MIGHT SAY, I DISAGREE. THE WRITINGS OF A
SENATOR, that's historical significance.
WHO GETS TO DECIDE whether or not there
is
>> writing is art, right? Writing is art.
Yes.
>> Okay. So, this is art right now.
>> It depends what it says, right? We need
to analyze.
>> It says first I thought you said ought
not art. So, I have topic is art is
subjective. The Greeks and I sort of
like So, is it art or not?
>> So, the the determination would be on
somebody that is skilled at determining
uh it would come down to the value of
said thing, right? what value becomes an
ultimate determination of of the
objective metrics towards whether
something is art or not
>> but we can often times see even amongst
the experts as I said right there's
subjective disagreement in these things
for example the Olympics are going on
right now you could have 10 experts that
watch ice skating right and come to 10
different conclusions on who won
>> now that would intuit it that if at the
top level they might say this is all a
level of proficiency RIGHT HERE. BUT IF
THOSE SAME EXPERT judges
>> proficiency in the world, all of those
people
>> correct. So if THOSE SAME EXPERT JUDGES
INSTEAD OF JUDGING THIS COMPETITION ARE
JUDGING AN AMATEUR ONE,
>> RIGHT?
>> YES.
>> They're going to each if logic tells you
if at the top level there's discrepancy
and it's not objective. this is the
best, this is the second best. THERE'S
OBJECTIVITY TO IT THAT AT THE LEVEL THAT
WOULD BE RIGHT RIGHT at the line of what
is professional and what is amateur
>> or what is art and what is not that
there's going to be disagreement amongst
the professionals.
>> No. Well, they they they wouldn't be
right because the thing is if if it was
there would be drastically different
numbers and also the determination of
the numbers comes down to objective
metrics, right?
>> Okay. So,
>> they don't just do it because of how
they feel. No, that's not true. That
often times there could be much of that.
THE SUBJECTIVE INTER I JUDGE DEBATES,
RIGHT? In debates, I guess you would say
at some level I was a professional
debate judge, right? We have a 0 through
20 criteria in scoring, right? It's
amazing.
>> Rob, when we judge debates, do we not
say take your opinion out of it, take
the subjectivity out of it,
>> BUT IT'S IMPOSSIBLE. YOU MIGHT SAY THAT,
BUT it's impossible. Well, whether
whether or not when you judge something
you can be objective or not does not
stipulate whether it's its
categorization
is objective or not.
>> That could be true. But the problem with
that is you're saying the categorization
is dependent on the human experts. BUT
IF THE HUMAN EXPERTS can't be objective,
well then it shows that if it's relying
on human experts and you're
acknowledging that the humans can't be
objective, then by its very nature once
more art becomes subjective.
>> No. Well, the thing is right, so like
like I said earlier, it it does it does
boil down to to to the essence of
qualified people coming to a a consensus
on objective metrics.
>> Okay. So let's let's play this
>> because they they they're functioning on
objective metrics as they their guiding
stone for judging things right but in a
world where we are humans we are the
perceiver of things right so ultimately
there will be some kind of biased in
this even assessing data in science
might you you could make an argument for
well maybe there would be a in some
sense a subjective determination because
everything requires an observer to
determine something. So now we're going
well the only way something is objective
if you take the human out of it. So then
nothing is objective
that [__] this isn't going to work. Uh
stupid payw wall. Uh let's see if I
could do this. I'll I'll next time
you're talking I'll try to look at
here's the problem right? So even if we
take IT TO I COULD GO THROUGH ALL sorts
of historical examples right you've
already acknowledged the historical
example. The Greek looks at the African
pottery says this sucks. This isn't art
based on our metrics. But the African
artist would say this is art because
this is all we know and it's the best.
Then you say if the Greek is made
knowledgeable, this is the best Africa
has to offer. All of a sudden that same
object that didn't qualify as art under
him now does qualify as art because it's
the best that that specific POPULATION
COULD DO. BUT then here's my next
question. They find uh you know a
warehouse in Africa. The Greeks are
conquering. Alexander the Great goes and
they found a warehouse. And so at first
it was this pottery is not art and then
oh it's the best they have to offer. It
is art. Then they find a warehouse and
it's a hundred pieces of pottery THAT
ARE ALL MUCH BETTER THAN THE PIECE THAT
THEY HAD THERE. NOW IT'S NOT art again.
>> So remember what I said. So we
ultimately sit with a problem of a human
analysis of things, right? So that's why
I said with lack of knowledge,
subjectivity
and emotions and feelings
come into play. with higher levels of
understanding of objective metrics at
which to use to determine things. I can
look at math and say that's just
[__] That's just [__] that's
letters that there ain't no numbers on
that. But that's just cuz I'm a dumbass,
right? I'm a dumbass. I don't know that
those letters are have a value that
that's being used to to for an equation.
But that's just cuz I'm stupid. That
doesn't mean that I'm wrong. Do you
consider yourself and I I look I'm not
trying to [__] got you question here
and I don't want you to brag too much
about
>> No, go don't you take it easy on me,
Rob. Damn it.
>> No, no. HERE'S WHAT I MEAN. WOULD YOU
CONSIDER YOURSELF SOMEWHAT AT LEAST MORE
THAN a layman of an expert on art?
>> Yeah, I would. I mean,
>> you do you do molding and stuff, but
would you IF I SHOWED YOU
>> I make art for artists. I make art for
artists, but that doesn't I don't know
if that even considers as art to be
honest.
>> Painting. Would you, IF I SHOWED YOU A
PAINTING, would you be able to tell me
in your interpretation if it was art or
not? You can go through the lines. Okay.
>> Yes.
>> Is this art?
>> See if speak easy brings it up.
>> Okay.
>> Yes. See that? That let me let me have a
look quickly. So that No, because that's
AI
>> and yet it won the Colorado State Fair's
art competition. A series of experts
ruled that not only art, but the best
art at the competition.
>> Okay, Rob, how did I know it was AI?
>> Because you probably saw little uh what
do they call it? Artifacts in there that
are slightly wrong.
>> Oh, yeah. Because I know art. It's It's
funny how if you have knowledge of art,
you can make good determinations, right?
Interesting how that works. Huh. So that
>> so so just to be clear the experts that
were there the experts that were there
that thought
>> liberal retards they probably liberal
retards.
>> Okay but here's the pro so here here's
the problem and this is what gets to the
next problem. Once you say that art is
determined based on a lit like a
consensus of experts of the day. What if
the experts of the day are [__]
>> That is that is true. Yes. If
>> okay, so they think the banana stapled
to a wall, if everyone, if the greatest
art connoisseurs in the world say, "My
goodness, that banana stapled to a wall
is [__] art." Who are you TO SAY NO?
SOCIETY HAS DETERMINED these are the art
critics, and they say that this is
significant,
>> Rob, what is that?
>> An eyeball.
>> It's a [__] parrot. Is it a [__]
parrot? Look, it's a [__] parrot.
>> It could be. But we can determine that
it doesn't represent a parrot. The
desired outcome of me saying it is a
parrot. It doesn't display what we know
to be a parrot.
>> NO, NO, NO. THAT'S BUT ART'S DIFFERENT,
RIGHT? YOU'RE IN FACT ART DIFFERENT.
WELL, you just acknowledged WHY YOU SAID
A PARROT IS A PARROT. A PARROT IS A
PARROT TODAY IS A parrot tomorrow was a
parrot 100 YEARS AGO. CORRECT. IT
DOESN'T MATTER IF WE LATER FIND OUT THAT
this bird that we're calling a parrot
had HISTORICAL SIGNIFICANCE.
BIOLOGICALLY, IT'S A parrot or it's not.
A DRAWING IS NOT art or not. There's all
sorts of things that could GO INTO IT.
FOR EXAMPLE, THE SAME DRAWING, IF IT WAS
DONE BY a Greek at the time of Greek
culture, you would say THAT'S NOT ART.
BUT IF THAT EXACT SAME PIECE IN THE
EXACT SAME TIME WAS DONE BY AN AFRICAN,
YOU WOULD SAY THAT IS ART. SO THEREFORE,
IT'S not the same as the parrot example.
Well, time is the differential, right?
>> No, NO, NOT EVEN TIME AT THAT POINT. IN
THE exact same time, you say because in
that one culture, it's the best they
have to offer. It is art. It has nothing
to do with time. A parrot's not the
same. There's nothing analogous that
you'll be able to
>> highest. Yes. Highest proficiency skill
level of a of let's say a isolated group
in that group. Yes. If we analyze and go
these people was was were cut off from
all of society and they produced this
thing. It's the best that their culture
could produce. Yes, it gets the
determination of art because of the
historic nature and the understanding of
what the thing is.
>> But the problem is once you say that the
objective criteria we determine for
whether or not something is the best of
that culture or good in that culture is
decided by the people that we have
culturally deemed experts. And then I
say, "But what if the EXPERTS ARE DOG
SHIT?" SOMETHING THAT YOU AGREE WITH
that the experts today are dog [__]
>> right? Okay. So then you say, "But it's
JUST THE SAME WAY WE KNOW THIS ISN'T
APPARENT." IT'S NOT THE same because
it's going to rely on the expertise of
people. You can't just, right? You can't
literally just show a picture, right,
and say, "Is this art?" YOU'RE LIKE, "I
HAVE TO KNOW THE CONTEXT.
>> I have to know the context and my
interpretation of whether or not this is
art." So it's going to be different than
your example. AND WHO ARE YOU? WHY
SHOULD I PREFER YOUR INTERPRETATION over
people that are in there? It's phony
bologoney qualifications but feel that
they're more qualified THAN YOU. WHY
SHOULD I believe you over the consensus
expert?
>> Why? You know why? Cuz I hold the See, I
see because I'm better than those
[__] because I want to hold true to
objective metrics of analyzing things
and not subjectively analyzing things
for some agenda or some feelings. You
know, in the same way the experts told
us what was going on in 2020 when some
[__] was going down. It's funny. Our
whole society can be [__] and the
experts can be [__] I can concede
TO THAT FIRE, RIGHT? THAT'S MY OWN.
>> That is my Well, that's my problem with
where we are at this at this stage. Who
are the determiners of of of art and
these things? Now, it boils down to some
some experts. Rob, do you know what the
experts say about Michelangelo? They say
a dude who never had sex was a gay dude.
That's what that's what the experts say
about Michelangelo. They say he was gay,
but he never had sex and he was a
Catholic. So yes, the experts can be
ridiculous and subvert
YOUR DEFINITION RELIES ON THE EXPERTS TO
DETERMINE WHAT IS OR ISN'T.
>> WE objectively know that this is not
true, but they hold lies as we
objectively know that that's not the
case.
>> This is different, right? There's
difference. What you're talking about
there is you're talking about things
that literally are objective. You're
going back to parrot TYPE EXAMPLES.
WHETHER OR NOT SOMEONE WAS GAY and had
gay sex is objectively true or not true.
WHETHER OR NOT SOMETHING ART CHANGES
BASED ON the context SURROUNDING ABOUT
IT. WHETHER OR NOT YOU HAD GAY SEX DOES
NOT CHANGE. WHETHER OR NOT SOMETHING IS
apparent does not change. FOR EXAMPLE,
AN ART CRITIC. YOU MIGHT BE A fantastic
art critic, right? Let's assume you are.
Let's assume you're the best art critic
in the world. AND YOU LOOK AT A BAND AND
you're like, you know, JIMMYI HENDRIS BY
ALL METRICS, PHENOMENAL ARTIST,
PHENOMENAL GUITAR PLAYER, BUT I ALSO
THINK HE WAS A DIRTY [__] COMMIE.
[__] HIM. AND IT'S LIKE, YEAH, BUT THAT
DOESN'T THAT DOESN'T SPEAK TO WHETHER OR
NOT YOUR EVALUATION of his art was
correct. AND I MIGHT SAY, ACTUALLY,
>> that's a subjective determination on him
as a person,
>> right?
>> That's got nothing to saying he was a
commie has nothing to do with his guitar
playing,
>> RIGHT? SO SAYING THAT MICHELANGELO IS
GAY HAS NOTHING to do RIGHT THAT'S
YOU'RE RIGHT REAL QUICK REAL QUICK
THAT'S MY POINT SO WHETHER OR NOT THE
EXPERTS analyzing art say Michelangelo
was gay totally irrelevant to their
critique of his art
>> yeah what yeah what I'm telling you is
people can hold things to be true that
is objectively wrong so it was boiling
down to the determination well what if
majority of the society is stupid and
those people are in power to make these
decisions. Yes. Then yeah, now we're
making subjective determinations. That
should not be the case. So I'm making a
ought claim. It ought to be in the in in
the sense of objective because that is
how it's judged. But right now, we've
had a subversion in art and culture
where stupid [__] gets given the higher
order categorization of art when it's
just a drawing. It's just a piece of
[__] And then it because of the gallery
structure and the the the institution of
art has eroded completely the same way
science has which is an objective thing
and they function on subjective models
which is [__] The same thing that
is happening in science has happened in
art. I'm arguing for art because it's a
harder one to argue for. But because of
what things are now does not mean it is
how it should be. It ought to be judged
on objective metrics. How we determine
these things. When we judge things on
objective me on on subjective metrics is
when we end up saying stupid [__]
>> But again, even if I accept, I think
you're I think you're sort of moving
goalpost a little here. And let me
explain why. If that's the case that
you're making an claim and not an is
claim, THEN WHY WOULD YOU EVEN SUGGEST A
panel of experts being necessary? Why
wouldn't YOU SAY EXPERTS BE DAMNED?
You should say here's color theory and
if something meets color theory good
enough then we say it meets the metric
of art except it's not just color theory
it's also line theory color theory right
like it's all of these things that you
MIGHT SAY AND SO therefore you if you
are someone who says it's objective I
should be able to show you any piece and
you tell me whether or not it's art
whether or not it conforms to these sort
of things and there's no
>> well I'm not an expert but I I I can
make determinations but I would make
those determinations not on how I feel
or whether I think it's good or not. So
yes, because mainstream is doing
something stupid doesn't mean I agree
with that. That's a good way to
determine things. So maybe I would be
able to do better. I'm not an expert.
But because I function on judging things
objectively and not subjectively, yes,
that's why I'm making the argument that
that should be the way moving forward. I
think that I've proven my point that the
problem is that you're still going to
have subjective interpretations of who
the experts are and they're going to
even if we see people that we
acknowledge today that we think are
worthwhile experts such as judges in
figure skating competitions, they when
you get down to sort of the level of
whether or not we would consider it art
or not would still amongst themselves
have disagreements prove that there's
still a subjective nature.
>> Rob, do we have an objective scripture
that is the Bible? Do people judge it
differently subjectively?
>> Yes.
>> Okay. So then what do we do? We appeal
to the to the people that have the most
understanding of it to give us the
determination. So maybe not everybody
with a [__] opinion should have one
because they're going to make subjective
opinions. Maybe we should appeal to
somebody who is actually objective with
how they they they they look at things.
>> But again, art's different than
religion. Art's different, right?
>> Oh, it's not. The Bible is a piece of
writing, right?
>> Sure. But it's with objective truth,
>> right? Art's not the art's not the same.
>> So, people come to different
determinations when they read the Bible.
>> So, when we say art, whether or not to
determine something's art or not has to
do with the subjective interpretations
of experts of who we subjectively call
experts. If there was just an objective
determination, that would prove that 99%
of the time they would say, "This is
art. This isn't or even more 100% of the
time. That would be objective. What's
the person determining?
>> For example, if an engineer, IF YOU HAVE
QUALIFIED engineers and you show them 10
bridges and only one of them would hold
and the other nine would collapse under
A TRACTOR TRAILER, THEY'LL BE ABLE TO
TELL YOU BASED ON OBJECTIVE METRICS,
all these experts will say this is the
bridge THAT WOULD WORK. THAT'S NOT THE
SAME WITH ART. NOT EVEN CLOSE. BECAUSE
THERE IS A SUBJECTIVE INTERPRETATION to
it. Right? Again, we could see this
over. IT'S WHY LIKE OF OF COURSE LIKE
IT'S WHY THIS, RIGHT? LIKE WE COULD LOOK
AT figure skating and there might be
someone that says I think that like or
skateboarding is a better example. I
grew up playing the Tony Hawk games. I
don't know if you ever played them,
right? Or like like I knew this enough
about skateboarding. Some people THOUGHT
THAT LIKE THE halfpipe and the people
doing like the crazy [__] you know uh
960 or 900s and [__] like that was the
cool [__] Other people like the like
sort of like street the grinding and
[__] WHO'S TO SAY WHAT'S BETTER, RIGHT?
BOTH OF THEM COULD HAVE A TECHNICAL
PROFICIENT SKILL, BUT IF YOU HAD TO
DETERMINE IF THERE WAS A routine like an
open routine, WHICH ONE DID BETTER? NOW,
IF ONCE YOU SAY, WELL, EXPERTS COULD SAY
THAT THIS is more artistic THAN THIS,
THIS, RIGHT? EXPERTS could reasonably
disagree because there is a subjective
aspect to it.
>> Yes. But remember, Rob, that's the
point. Are they judging on their
feelings or are they judging on
objective metrics, the tricks that are
done, the the the the the skill set of
the tricks that are done? Which is more
human beings make subjective
determinations about things, but the
criteria being used to categorize things
is objective.
>> Okay. Then what's the objective? What's
the objective?
>> Is subjective.
Then if a guy does the best sort of
grinding, you know, and then another guy
does the best sort of halfpipe routine.
Give me the objective answer. Which
one's better art?
>> So, so this is how this is how we would
do it, right? So, let's say, okay, you
brought up a good example,
skateboarding, right?
>> Yeah.
>> So, it would be on how many people grind
the rail in that specific way. So, body
form and things like that would make a
determination of of that. So, you would
go, most people don't do it like that.
That's unique. Ah, that's interesting.
The skill set, the distance at which is
grinded, the how the how the the
orientation of the board flips when they
hit the rail, how cleanly it touches
down. All of these objective metrics we
look at. We don't go I really like that
dude and his kick flip was cool. I'm
going to give him high points. THAT'S
NOT
>> NO, I DISAGREE. I DISAGREE THAT it's
just Well, how unique is it? There's
plenty of [__] that's always
bolts crooked. You remember that [__]
ridiculous Australian chick that was in
the break dancing competition at the
Olympics?
>> Yeah. WELL,
>> THAT WAS VERY UNIQUE. Very unique.
Right.
>> But is it a higher order skill set that
the other competitors couldn't do?
>> Well, perhaps not. But the same would be
said.
>> So why was she laughed at Rob?
>> Well, like for example,
>> because she lacked skill or because
people object subjectively thought that
it was silly.
>> Tony Hawk does a 900. To my knowledge,
he's the first person to do it, right?
the first person to do that,
>> right? Okay. AMAZING. RIGHT? BUT THEN
AFTER THAT, A BUNCH OF OTHER PEOPLE
STARTED DOING IT. SO, LET'S SAY TONY
HAWK inspired a generation of
SKATEBOARDERS TO SAY, "THAT'S WHAT I
WANT TO DO." RIGHT? NOW, SOME OTHER GUY
COMES AND HE does like I'm going to show
you how [__] lame I am here. HE DOES
LIKE A DOUBLE FLIP, A DOUBLE flip his
board, dark slide, RIGHT? AND NO ONE'S
EVER DONE IT. BUT OBJECTIVELY, THE
PEOPLE THAT HAVE SPENT ALL THEIR TIME
DOING 900 say, "Look, no one's done
that, but if I practice for a week, I
could do that." MORE OF A THAT'S THE
ONLY GUY THAT DOES THAT RIGHT NOW. BUT
YOU WOULD SAY BUT THAT'S UNIQUE AT THE
TIME. BUT WHAT I'M TRYING TO SAY IS IT
it has to do
>> value.
>> There's a subjective nature. There's a
subjective nature. There is not just
there's not just a this is it. This is
the formula that you follow that doesn't
it doesn't exist. An object does I'm
using objective metric of the first of
something carries the historical value
that gives it value that gives more
which more art country music or metal
>> who who plays who plays who plays faster
what is the skill set that's used in it
is it basic chords is it advanced chords
does it follow poly rhythms these kind
of things is the determination I can say
that there's music there's m most people
hate jazz but it is objective that it's
some of the best dramas in the world,
dude. Like that's your subjective
determination of whether you like jazz
or not doesn't mean [__] If we know
that
>> it's not just about it's not just about
>> it has some of the best dramas.
>> It's not just about technical
proficiency.
>> That is what you it should be judged on
is technical proficiency.
>> OKAY, BUT THEN IT'S ARBITRARY THAT AI
CAN'T BE ART CUZ AI COULD WILL GET TO a
point
>> AI is not a human.
>> It doesn't matter.
>> Humans make art. machines produce a
generated code. That's
>> it doesn't matter if it's more
technically skilled. If it's more THEN
THE ART THE IDEA of art being human is
completely arbitrary. It loses all
value.
>> Who?
>> Me. And I'll explain why. Because if
they if if all art IS IS THE MOST
TECHNICAL proficiency and a machine
could come and do the technical
proficiency better and you just say,
"Yeah, but that doesn't count because it
wasn't human." Why? There's the reason,
let me finish. The reason that we say
that AI isn't art is because we think
there's something more to it. There's
something about putting there's putting
your a human emotion, your soul into it,
RIGHT? THAT'S WHY WE SAY THAT THE
TECHNOLOGY, the computer isn't ART
BECAUSE IT LACKS THAT HUMAN ASPECT. YES,
IT MAY BE ABLE TO PLAY THE drums
technically more proficiently, faster,
more onbeat than any human could. And
yet still, sure it can't.
>> No, it can't.
>> You could say,
>> "No, it can't. No way it can." No, no,
no. Now you're being ridiculous saying
that
>> you're telling me that like let's say we
did 128.
>> You're telling me an AI would beat the
best human drama in the world? There's
no [__] way.
>> When it comes to tech, like let's say
that we were there's no way.
>> Listen, listen to me. Let's say we said,
"Okay, human drummer, I want you to play
uh 128."
>> Hey, I can't even beat
>> for 30 minutes straight. And then we'd
say, "Okay, computer, we want YOU TO DO
THAT." WHICH ONE DO YOU THINK WILL BE
MORE proficient and consistent?
It depends on WHAT IS
>> IT DOESN'T. WE KNOW THAT THAT COMPUTER
WILL BE RIGHT ON BEAT FOR 30 MINUTES.
It's not going to wear out. It's not
going to have fatigue.
>> Do you understand what determinations
are with drums? Volume at which it's
hit. So the the the the pressure at
which a drum is hit has an implication
to the skill set because a lot of
drummers will say he's not just
smashing. You don't just hit a drum and
that's what drumming is, right? So you
if you understand drumming it's it's
it's the pressure used on each drum
because that designates volume.
>> So when volume designation is done by a
machine the skill set is gone.
>> NO THAT'S UNTRUE. LIKE YOU'RE JUST
fundamentally incorrect about this. If
we said that it would be very proficient
to play at this insane fast beat for 20
minutes. Who could do it BETTER AT THE
EXACT same tonal volume the entire time?
The exact same pressure. THERE IS NO
DOUBT. THERE IS NO DOUBT THAT THE
COMPUTER WOULD be better than any human.
>> Tell me something. Is the computer
actually playing real drums?
>> Does it matter?
>> Oh, no. That that does kind of matter.
Is it actually playing a drum? Is it No,
no, no. Is it actually playing a drum?
>> Is it actually playing a drum?
>> Why does it matter?
>> Is it actually playing a drum? If you're
drumming,
>> what does drumming mean?
>> It has nothing to do with whether or not
it's art.
>> Does it mean playing drums or does it
mean making drum sounds? I can make drum
sounds with my mouth. Am I playing
drums? So what is it? Art
>> if if me making drum sounds with my
mouth is drumming. This is the problem
with this.
>> Is it art? THE QUESTION NOT IS IT
TECHNICALLY DRUMMING. The question is is
it art?
>> Oh, making making drum sounds with your
mouth. Yeah, that's art that a computer
also can do. We call that beatboxing.
>> Okay. So then the computer
>> computer can't beat box.
>> THEN THE COMPUTER WOULD BE DOING ART AS
WELL.
>> ROB, can a computer beatbox?
>> Sure.
So it can it can use lungs and sounds
and lips to produce sounds.
>> Well, if you want to get technical in
the tech, LET ME TELL YOU ANOTHER
>> that's what beatboxing is.
>> Is there such thing as digital
photography?
>> What does that have to do with
>> I'm just asking you. Do you think
there's a such thing as digital
photography?
>> Well, but what I'm asking you is does A
ROBOT HAVE
>> I'M JUST ASKING I IF YOU ANSWER THE
QUESTION THEN I I will explain the
beatbox argument. I promise.
>> Is digital photography a thing? Yes.
>> Okay. My friend wrote a thesis and
disagrees. He defines photography as the
chemical process that requires sort of
film going into A DARK ROOM. THAT IS HOW
HE DEFINES PHOTOGRAPHY. THEREFORE,
digital photography, me taking a picture
with this, that's not photography. If
when I go out,
>> I would actually agree WITH THAT.
>> OKAY. SO THEN, SAME thing here, RIGHT?
ON ONE HAND, YOU COULD SAY, WELL,
TECHNICALLY BY DEFINITION, the computer
can't drum. It can't BE BOXED. NOW,
THEORETICALLY, the computer can drum. I
mean, you literally could set a computer
play drums.
>> Sure, it can. You can have
>> code can play drums.
>> Let me finish. You could You're telling
me you COULDN'T SET A COMPUTER up with a
mechanical arm that hits a drum?
>> Oh, no. But that's a robot.
>> Okay. But that's still code that's doing
it.
>> It's not a human brain. It's still code.
It's it's just CODE GOING THROUGH CODE
GOING THROUGH YOUR SPEAKER and
outputting sound as opposed to code
going through an a mechanical arm
hitting a drum that outputs the same
same thing. The mechanism still
>> what's that?
>> No, it won't be as fluid as a No, it
won't be as I mean if you create a robot
with code
>> you're FUNDAMENTALLY WRONG. THE POINT is
if it's just technical proficiency I'm
sure I'M SURE THIS IS absolutely the
case. If it's just technical
proficiency, right, YOU COULD EVEN TAKE
SOME OF THE BEST GUITAR players in the
world that would be able TO SAY LIKE,
"HOLY [__] LISTEN TO THAT SOLO that
that computer JUST DID." WHEN IT COMES
TO TECHNICAL PROFICIENCY, THE WAY THAT
IT CHANGED CHORD PROGRESSIONS, the way
that IT INCREASED THE VOLUME, THE WAY
THAT IT KEPT the beat THE WHOLE TIME,
RIGHT? ALL OF IT WAS TECHNICALLY
PROFICIENT, BUT THEY WOULD PROBABLY
STILL SAY, "I DON'T CONSIDER THAT ART."
BECAUSE WHAT'S LOST there is the fact
that there is no human emotion to it.
The human element,
>> the human element, human doing something
is art, not a computer doing something,
WHICH IS WHY OKAY, I'M GLAD WE GOT
THERE. THE REASON THAT that
differentiation matters is because IT'S
NOT JUST ABOUT technical proficiency.
>> NO,
>> RIGHT, THAT'S MY ENTIRE ARGUMENT.
>> IT'S ONE of the matrix.
>> It's one metric. SO THEN IF THERE'S
OTHER METRICS that could be subjective,
like human emotion that's put into the
matrix,
>> you could absolutely have art.
Absolutely. This could be considered
art.
Absolutely.
If it drives
>> could be by somebody's subjective
determination, but not objectively. NO.
>> THEN WHY WOULD THAT OBJECTIVELY NOT BE
ART? Because the
>> because there's there's no there's no
value to a drawing that doesn't have
some kind of skill set that to you it
does. I'm not disputing that it has
value to you. But if somebody would
determine it and judge it as can this be
produced
by a small group of pe or can this be
produced by a majority of people they
would go yes so it's not art. I
disagree. We just got done with if
that's the criteria. If computers
hypothetically could, would you
acknowledge this that we could
theoretically be 20 years away from AI
being able to paint pictures that are
indecipherable from humans?
>> It doesn't matter what AI does because
it's not a human doing anything.
>> FORGET ABOUT THAT. I'M just asking would
you acknowledge that we could get to
that point
>> that it could that it could do something
like produce an image?
>> Yes.
>> That would be
I will never agree that
>> that's fine. You could say you could say
that that's not it makes a painting
right that is INDECIPHERABLE FROM THE
BEST HUMAN PAINTERS THAT HAVE ever
existed.
>> Mhm.
>> Okay. That's possible, right?
>> Yes.
>> Then it seems that your criterion STILL
SAYING BUT THAT'S not art. It shows that
art's more about the ability for
different people to replicate it.
>> No, no, no. The few people that can
definition contains a human doing it.
So, we would look at it and go, "Wow,
insane technical proficiency. A human
didn't do it. It's garbage."
>> Nobage. What I'm saying, what I'm saying
is that when I look when I show
something, cuz to me, art is more about
evocation of emotion within people.
>> No,
>> that's what I would consider art, right?
No. And so something I think
>> the best swords craftsman doesn't care
about invoking emotion. What makes his
swords great is the technical side of
the weapon. Kitanas from Japan. It's not
our feelings why we like kitanas. It's
because of the higher skill set that's
used to make traditional kitanas in
Japan.
>> I disagree. I think that I think that
subject I think subjectively people
could determine that. But also,
subjectively, people could say that art
is something that evokes emotion into
them. I don't think that there's one
right answer to this. You're
>> That's the That's the modern gay
determination.
>> Well, no. I think that that's always
been the determination. No, it's not. I
gave you the says it's not that.
>> I disagree. Right. Here's why. Like,
let's take swords. Let's take swords
specifically. A person may look at a
sword that a king would wield and it's
ordained with jewelry, artisan, the gold
inlay, everything, right? But the
practical application of that sword
might be dog [__] For example, the way
they folded the steel far less
impressive than like some peon knight,
right? I I don't want to say peon
knight. I don't know that any knights
were considered peons, but some peon,
you know, militia who had a sword THAT
AN ARTISAN. IT'S VERY PLAIN LOOKING, BUT
DAMN, THIS IS THE MOST EFFICIENT SWORD.
IF YOU HAD TO CLASH with armor and sword
at the time, this sword's going to fare
better than the kings. Which one's art?
Well, see the both of them would fall
under different metrics because there's
multiple metrics. There's multiple
objective metrics to judge something by
because we have different versions of
things that can be art. A small
sculpture can be a piece of art and a
big sculpture can be a piece of art. A
bridge can be a piece of art. It it's
it's all of these things are built
things, but we judge them on different
criteria,
>> right? They're different criteria.
objective criteria is used to judge
things.
>> No, no, no. So then, so then the SWORD
THAT HAS IMPRESSIVE INLAY, YOU WOULD SAY
THAT'S ART because the impressive inlay.
>> Yes.
>> The sword that's very effective is art
because it's a tool that's effective at
what it's doing.
>> Both contain high levels of
craftsmanship making it art.
>> I don't think that high level's
necessary in order for it to be deemed
art. I just don't think that's THE CASE.
FOR EXAMPLE.
>> WELL, art art is a higher category.
That's the whole argument is that people
go art isn't this higher category. It is
because it carries value that the the
giving something the category of this is
a piece of art is a higher order
category. Not all drawings are art.
Otherwise, if everything is art based on
a subjective determination,
then everything is art and the title
category higher order category is
pointless. It's a pointless.
>> Let me let me give this hypothetically,
RIGHT? LET'S SAY that we look at someone
that maybe let's just say for the sake
of argument, I know this is hard to
IMAGINE HYPOTHETICALLY, BUT EVERYBODY
LOOKS AT LIKE THE premier expert in a
field. So, let's just say, LOOK, THERE'S
A LOT OF DEBATE ON WHO'S the number two
sword maker in the world, but everybody
sort of agrees this guy's the best.
Okay, just for the sake of argument. And
he presents this sword.
>> And we're all like, "Holy [__]
>> that is an amazing piece of art. The
skill that went into that, blah, blah,
blah, right?" And so, we all agree. AND
HE SAYS, "ACTUALLY, THIS WAS [__] I
came up with this in a day. Some of the
worst work I've ever done, and I'm the
best artist. I don't think this is art.
Is it art?
Well, again, the artist determination on
that would then would then would then
obviously supersede because he's the
specialist. If he's one of the best in
the world, he becomes the authority. If
he's one of the top people in the world,
he would be one of the top authorities.
So, if he says, "I don't think this is
my best work." We have had multiple
artists that have done this where people
said, "This is a piece of art." and they
go, "No, it's a piece of shit."
>> Right?
Authority because higher skill level
>> the OTHER BEST SWORDSMITH SAY actually
we still think it's great. WE STILL
THINK IT'S WHO'S RIGHT?
>> So if we go on subjective on objective
metrics, he would probably be incorrect
on that even though he's one of the
experts. Why? Because he's using a
subjective determination on his own
work. Usually artists are [__] at
determining their own work to be good or
not. So yes, he would be one of the
experts at this and he would be judging
his own work subjectively, but
objectively if people looked at this
other experts, they would say no, this
is this is at a very high level. So this
again can be categorized as art.
>> But again, right, like
>> he would say it's not good, but he
wouldn't say it's not art because he
knows everything he makes is at a high
level.
>> He might that's not true. I think that
many artists
>> No, he would say, "I don't like this."
Or
>> was Picasso Was Picasso an artist?
>> Uhhuh.
>> You're doing You're doing this to me,
Rob.
>> Uhhuh.
>> According according to According to the
gay establishment. Yes.
>> Okay. So, let's say that we didn't say
he was an artist. I watched the other
day a video of Picasso making an
elephant. It took him like 3 seconds.
You think that's art?
>> No.
>> YET THEY WOULD HAVE SAID THIS IS ART.
>> YEAH, THEY would have said it's art. But
you know why?
>> Do you know why the Do you know Do you
know what the objective metric is for
that? Can I tell you
>> the objective metric for the the the art
class saying that this is art?
>> Do do you know do you Yes. Well, do I
would not agree that it's art? My
subjective. Do you know why it is art?
>> Go ahead. You tell me. Because the the
the the person who did it is Picasso and
his name carries the value in ALL.
>> THERE YOU GO. THAT'S SORT OF THE POINT I
MAKE THOUGH. BUT WE COULD SAY EVEN IF
YOU WOULD say let's say carries a very
monetary value.
>> I thought what Picasso unique.
>> I thought there was a skill to it. But I
thought it was rubbish. I'll be honest.
I'm [__] I'm not impressed with
Picasso. This modern art [__] sucks as
far as I'm concerned in my opinion. Even
if I could say that there's talent
involved in it. Nonetheless, here's the
point, right? It gets to the point that
you just made about THE SWORDSMITH.
LET'S SAY HYPOTHETICALLY, CHRIS, you're
like, "All right, THERE WAS SOME Picazo
[__] that I would say is technically
proficient enough that I would put in
the category of art." Do you think you
could say that?
>> Well, yes, he did. Well, yes. Well,
dude, the the the thing is yes, because
Picasso is Picasso, his name on a blank
piece of paper is considered art.
>> Okay. Well, okay. Well, that that I
don't necessarily agree with that, but
here's what I was going to say.
>> Think about this. Would it have a
massive amount of value if you were to
sell it?
>> What's the value? Like money?
>> Objectively, yes.
>> Okay. But if then then modern art is
art. It sells for a lot of money.
>> Modern art,
>> right?
That sells FOR $2 MILLION, THEN THAT'S
ART. IT'S SOLD FOR A lot of money.
I'm telling you the objective metric
that Picasso stuff is judged by is
because of his significance. It it has a
value. Modern art.
>> But no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
You can't get out of this. If you just
said that it's art based on the fact
that something sells for money, well
then again, then it's completely
subjective.
>> For example, do you ever see people? But
let me give you an example.
>> I used to collect baseball cards.
>> You're from South Africa. DO DO YOU GUYS
HAVE LIKE BASEBALL CARDS AND [__] THERE?
Like soccer cards or footy? Footy? Yeah.
I don't know. Uh,
>> no.
>> Famous Bors. You have famous board.
>> Cricket and rugby.
>> No, we have we have we have cornfields
over here.
>> So, but but you're aware of like the
phenomen. Now it's [__] Pokemon cards
and [__] But when I was growing up, it
was like baseball cards, right? And I
remember there was this baseball player
I liked. His name was Ken Griffy Jr. And
I went to this like uh county fair AND I
BOUGHT A KEN GRIFFY JR. ROOKIE CARD FOR
FIVE BUCKS.
>> AND I REMEMBER GROWING UP THERE WERE
these little books that would tell you
the value of those cards. And that Ken
Griffy rookie card I bought for five
bucks. And like five years later, in one
book I saw that particular card was
worth 300 bucks, right? So I was like,
I'm going to have a yard sale. I'm going
to sell this card and I'm going to sell
it for 300 bucks. And my dad laughed at
me. He said, your card's not worth 300
bucks. I said, yeah, the book says it
is. HE SAYS, YOUR CARD IS ONLY WORTH
WHAT someone's willing to pay for. It
ain't gonna be nobody willing to pay 300
bucks.
>> So, I kept the card some and it probably
got lost somewhere in a shoe box up in
my old bedroom. Nonetheless, the point
is this, right? Like the idea of the
value of something, right, and how much
it sells for is completely subjective.
Completely.
>> No, it's not.
>> Of course,
>> it's it's not. It's based on objective
metric. So, the Picasso
>> that's not true at all. as the objective
metric of it is is attached to Picasso.
Modern art
does is is subjective in the sense of
the the the people that are that are
given these titles and the the the value
of their work that sell for high amounts
of money is determined by idiots. Back
then the institution still had some
value. But the but you think DO YOU
THINK THE IDEA OKAY, LET'S SAY you I
didn't get a straight answer. Do you
think Picasso was an artist?
>> Yes, he was.
>> Okay, but you don't think he was like
one of the greats? Like if you were
comparing him to Da Vinci or Right.
>> He's not one of the masters. NO.
>> OKAY. AND YET the people of his time
THOUGHT HIS [__] WAS WORTH INSANE
AMOUNTS OF MONEY. LIKE LIKE THE VALUE OF
HIS ART IS PUTS HIM if you just TOOK THE
VALUE IT SELLS from amongst the masters
right
>> I mean yes his work does sell for a lot
of money
>> RIGHT AND SO THE point is that it's sort
of it's not based on objective metrics
because his color theory is the best
because his line theory is the best
THERE'S SOMETHING MORE SUBJECTIVE ABOUT
IT
>> is the name Picasso important for that
the objective
>> yes but the reason that the name matters
IS SUBJECT OBJECTIVE. THAT'S MY POINT.
>> NO,
>> of course.
>> No, it is about
>> it's about the historical significance
of the name Picasso.
>> NO, BUT AGAIN, BUT THE REASON THAT THAT
HISTORICAL significance exists is
because of subjectivity.
IT MAY WELL BE IN A DIFFERENT PARALLEL
UNIVERSE THAT PICASSO, WHATEVER BREAK HE
GOT, DOESN'T GET THAT BREAK, PAINTS THE
EXACT SAME PAINTING AS EVERYONE'S LIKE,
"THIS IS DOG SHIT." THE SKILL LEVEL
THERE DOESN'T PUT HIM AMONGST THE
MASTERS AND SO INSTEAD OF HIS PIECES
SELLING FOR MILLIONS OF BUCKS THEY'RE
SELLING FOR 500 BUCKS RIGHT THAT'S
ENTIRELY POSSIBLE WHAT MADE PICASSO WAS
SUBJECTIVE RIGHT IF YOU IF YOU COULD SAY
IF ME AND you
>> well objective metrics is what made
Picasso when he painted what he painted
what he did who is who he studied
>> but the importance of those it's not
objective in the sense you're saying
right it's object in the the sense
you're saying that it's objective is You
could sit there and you could look AT A
SCULPTURE, A PAINTING, a piece of music
AND SAY THIS OBJECTIVELY FITS SOME sort
of theory that shows a specialization
that's not really replicable amongst
other people which puts this as unique
and skilled. That's not what but BUT
THAT'S THAT'S THE OBJECTIVE METRIC. ANY
OBJECTIVE BEYOND that's going to be
subjective.
>> Yes, we like I said some of these things
do have subjective metrics to them. Yes,
correct. Like Picasso or these kind of
people. Well, then you've conceded the
prompt. If there's subjectivity, it's
not purely objective.
>> Yes. Because subject there's subjective
determinations on everything.
>> It doesn't remember what I said the
ought claim of how it should be analyzed
should be objective. So what gets
attributed are should be based on
objective metrics. Everything even data
can be assessed subjectively.
But again the problem is you can't give
what that metric should be what the
objective metric should be. THE BEST YOU
COULD DO IS SAY A COLLABORATION OF
EXPERTS SHOULD come together to come up
with the objective criteria for the
value of something being art or not.
Right? And then when I say we HAVE THAT
SOCIETY NOW YOU'RE LIKE YEAH BUT the
experts suck.
>> Yes. Well, that's the point, right?
Because the the how they anal how the
analysis is happening is just based on
subjective metrics and and we've we've
ignored the objective nature of things.
Yes, it is. Minimalist minimalist art is
an example of how we've just completely
thrown the baby out with the bath water
without
>> But it's not purely subjectivity. There
are objective things.
>> I think that it's overwhelmingly
subject. Sure, it is. Here's an
objective thing. Most of the art is
things that people call art that the
artist himself calls art. Right? So for
example, if I like just put a banana
>> objective because of a subjective
determination,
>> right? But it's not purely subjective.
There's an objectivity there. Like
there's almost no art that's like if I
leave a banana, if I throw my garbage
into the dumpster and a banana falls out
and lands on the sidewalk, no one calls
it art. But if an artist puts a banana
on a sidewalk, same [__] position,
same banana, they might be like, "Ah,
THIS IS ART." NOW, IT IS TRUE that
oftentimes the interpretation of this
[__] is overwhelmingly subjective. But
in that case, one of the objective
things is objectively it's almost all
people that are intending to CREATE ART.
I THINK THEY'RE DOG [__] I AGREE WITH
YOU THERE. BUT THAT IS AN OBJECTIVE. AND
AGAIN, THE PROBLEM IS you're speaking in
the universe. It should always be 100%
objective. And right now it's always
100% subjective. I think you're wrong on
both accounts. I think there is
>> what is what isn't what is an artist is
subjective. What a contra what is art
should be an objective category based on
objective metrics. Right now
>> you don't even agree. Should should who
is an artist be objective or should it
be allowed to be subjective?
>> It should be objective.
>> It also should be objective.
>> Yes.
>> Okay. So
>> who who who who who is an artist that
produces art? Yes. Who is an artist? No,
>> that's I just
>> because I can call myself an artist and
it is it's meaningless.
>> I fundamentally disagree. I I
fundamentally disagree. Also, I find
this to be, believe it or not, sort of
utopian,
>> right? It it it's no different THAN
SAYING IT'S NO different than Yes.
BECAUSE THE PROBLEM is like you saying
that should be objective, right? And
then I say, "Well, okay, who gets to
decide this?" And you're like people
that will never be able to be objective,
but they should.
>> Well, well, that's but but see, this is
a fundamental problem we have with
everything. That's why we have we have
Rob, like I said, I brought this up with
we have this with the Bible. We have
this with biology, man and woman. We
have people making subjective
determinations. That is a part of human
nature that people do that
>> even in science. This is the case.
>> But if if we are saying that this that
that because humans determine things and
analyze things that there will be
subjectivity to it,
you would have to remove humans to
completely have something be objective.
>> No, I disagree. I think that I think
that although you're right that humans
are subjective,
what makes your case uniquely specific
here is that you are claiming that in
order to determine what the objectivity
is for something that means art, we have
to appeal to experts,
>> right? They get to determine whether or
not it's art. That's the status quo,
RIGHT? THAT'S THE STATUS QUO. WHAT WE
HAVE, RIGHT? Largely as a society, we
rely on these experts AND THE STATUS QUO
PROVES THAT THAT SYSTEM IS DOG [__]
>> BECAUSE WE HAVE them saying ALL SORTS OF
[__] QUALIFIES AS ART THAT PEOPLE LIKE
me and you would be like, "No." And then
there's all sorts of [__] that we think
we think would be art that they don't
qualify it as. They say no.
>> Okay, but now we have to determine these
people that are experts. Are they
experts?
>> Who determines? How do you determine
WHETHER OR NOT SOMEONE'S AN EXPERT?
>> There's no [__] determination right
now. Any [__] who has a gallery and
has money can [__] determine what
they think is art.
>> Okay. So then who should it be?
>> Somebody who is actually has objective
metrics why they have expertise
>> such as
>> such as some kind of pedigree, some kind
of understanding. Probably being an
artist themselves would be a good one.
>> Okay. So how about this? Uh people that
get degrees
in art in art theory
>> degrees are meaningless. NO, THAT'S
>> THAT'S RIGHT. THEY ARE
>> that's meaningless
>> right SO THEN SO THEN WHAT ARE WE
TALKING THOSE PEOPLE consider
>> so I would I would say okay I would say
for any person to be an expert in a
field they would have to be proficient
in the field
>> but here's THE PROBLEM LET'S SAY WE HAVE
THREE generations of dog [__] ART JUST
SAY ONE INDUSTRY painting right so
in the 70s all of a sudden it was all
this dog [__] modern art and then we had
a generation of wouldbe artists and
artisans that are coming up that are
taught dog [__] from these experts.
>> Well, that's a fundamental breakdown of
the institutions. They fractured
completely.
>> Okay. And you agree that's basically
what's happened. Yes.
>> YES.
>> OKAY. SO, NOW THE experts based ON
QUALIFICATIONS ARE PEOPLE THAT WE THINK
ARE DOG [__] but they're the experts
AND THEY HAVE THE PEDIGREE THAT THEY
SAY, "I SOLD MY PAINTING FOR MILLIONS OF
DOLLARS. EVERYONE AGREES THAT MY
PAINTING had all of this artistic
value." right now mean
>> but merely a big amount of money does
not make something art that I was using
that as an objective metric in which
something can be assessed but drugs go
for a lot of money that doesn't make it
art the point that I'm trying to make is
the people that right now have the
pedigree and the expertise are [__]
>> yes
>> OKAY SO THEN HOW DO WE DETERMINE
>> OBJECTIVELY or subjectively
>> WELL I THINK SUBJECTIVELY YOU WOULD
THINK objectively
Well, objectively, do they do art? What
is the value of their degree? Is it
based on nepotism? What is the We can
look at objective criteria to dis to
distinguish is this person an expert or
not?
>> Okay. So, who are the experts in art
that you trust right now?
>> That's the problem. The institutions are
so fractured, right? No. Well, Rob,
that's that's the No, listen. No. Well,
what you're doing is what you're doing
is you're going, "Okay, well, who do we
have now that are experts?" And I go,
"Well, listen, there's there's there's
an ancient language and we don't have
experts in that field." So, we appeal to
idiots that that are the closest to
experts we can get. So, a lack of
experts, right? Or now a abundance of
idiots that we ascribe to being experts
doesn't make them experts. It just means
we lack true exx.
>> No, no, no. The but again, here's the
problem. Your argument is art should be
defined as objective, right? Yes. And
okay, who gets to make that objective
determination? You're like, experts of
the day. And I'm like, OKAY, GREAT. BUT
WHAT IF THE EXPERTS OF THE DAY SUCK?
>> YES.
>> ACCORDING TO YOUR INTERPRETATION,
there's two possibilities. one well
UNFORTUNATELY BASED ON YOUR DEFINITION
THAT MEANS THAT THESE SHITTY EXPERTS NOW
IT'S THEIR WORD OBJECTIVELY WHAT IS ART
OR NOT OR YOU SAY I SUBJECTIVELY SAY
THAT THE EXPERTS SUCK AND NOW WHAT YOU
WANT TO be that the experts objectively
say what is art or not
>> is subverted by the fact YOU SAY I
REJECT THE EXPERTS I NO LONGER take
their word as objective
>> Rob the the like I said you with with
the fundamental like state we're in
right now. It's it's the same thing.
That's why it's difficult. Yes, modern
art is difficult, but that would be
obviously the main thing that we're
going to be talking about. But like I
said, when we talk about things like uh
knife makers or artisans that do leather
work or all of these things, these
things are judged on objective metrics
when we entered. So, so think about
this. Historically, you would go to a
person who's a blacksmith or somebody
and ob and say, "Make me the sword." And
they would make you a sword. That's how
art operated, right? So, a king would
commission work. Work was commissioned
by an artist. The gallery structure of
these [__] pseudo experts. That's
new. That's new. That's when the
breakdown started in the whole construct
of the art world is when when it when it
became just a way to to to funnel tax
money.
>> See, I think I think you're conflating
things. It's not how things used to
work.
>> I think you're conflating things. The
truth is an individual could call
anything art, right? Even if we just
limit. Sure, they could. An individual
could subjectively. I certainly Well,
yeah. Individual, right? Like I could
call anything art. And I think what
you're doing is you're like, well, we're
taking everyday objects that have
utility and saying the fact that they
were utilized in a good way itself makes
it art. But often times those aren't the
things that we would consider art. I
THINK THAT I COULD SAY LIKE I WATCH
Antiques Road Show, right? And I could
see the carpenter of the day that gets
commissioned. Someone comes to him and
says, "I need an end table."
>> And he puts this end table together. It
it may look VERY PLAIN, BUT DAMN IT, IF
THAT'S NOT THE STRONGEST, MOST WELL PUT
TOGETHER END TABLE. HERE WE ARE. 150
YEARS LATER, THAT MOTHERFUCKER'S STILL
STANDING. YOU GO TO IKEA and buy an end
table, that piece of shit's falling
apart in five years, RIGHT? SO, WE'RE
LIKE, AH, NOW I DON'T KNOW THAT THAT
ARTISAN AT THE TIME, THAT CARPENTER IS
LIKE, YEAH, MAN, I'M A [__] ARTIST.
He might just say, I'm making practical
[__] for people. That's it. The utility
of it is one metric that we say. The
plainness of it, THE UTILITY OF IT. MY
GOODNESS, WHAT A CRAFTSMAN. THIS MAN
MADE a piece of furniture that IS
AMAZING. AND NOW I WATCH ANTIQUES ROAD
SHOW AND I SEE PEOPLE SAY THERE IS VALUE
TO THIS, RIGHT? AND SO WE consider it
art sort OF POSTFACT EVEN IF THE GUY who
made it didn't consider it art. He just
CONSIDERED IT LIKE A car that you drive.
It's like it's a [__] utility.
There's utility in this practical object
that I'm creating. Right? YOU'RE LOOKING
AT THAT AND YOU'RE SAYING, "WELL, I
THAT'S ART." AND THAT'S FINE. YOU HAVE
EVERY RIGHT TO CALL THAT ART. And in
many ways, I get it. RIGHT? BUT THE
PROBLEM IS THAT shirts other things that
we've ALWAYS CONSIDERED ART. THERE WERE
A LOT OF things that we didn't say had
practical utilization in the moment that
we considered art. For example, a
painting. A painting wasn't something
that's like I use this painting TO CUT
BREAD. LIKE IT WASN'T THAT. IT HAD AN
AESTHETIC APPEAL. THAT'S WHAT THE ART OF
THE PAINTING IS. AND SO WHEN WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT THAT art that's not ones
of practical application, the sword has
the practical application of being used
as a tool OR A WEAPON. THE HAMMER, THE
END TABLE, THE BED, the window, but the
painting, the song, the sculpture, these
forms of art didn't really have
day-to-day PRACTICAL APPLICATION. THEY
HAD an aesthetic appeal. And it seems to
me what you're saying is when it comes
to those things that most people
consider more in the realm of art than
the practical util utility things, when
it comes to those, WE SHOULD HAVE
OBJECTIVE MEASURES ON when to consider
it art. And those SHOULD BE DETERMINED
BY EXPERTS THAT HAVE A PEDIGREE. AND I'M
LIKE, BUT THE PROBLEM IS THAT'S THE
STATUS QUO. AND THESE EXPERTS THAT HAVE
PEDIGREE, we think are DOG [__]
SUBJECTIVELY. AND YOU'RE LIKE, RIGHT,
THEY ARE THEY ARE DOG [__]
>> Objectively dog [__] NOT SUBJECT.
>> OKAY. BUT THAT'S THE POINT. SO THEN I
WILL ALWAYS BE ABLE TO WHAT IS THE
OBJECTIVE metric that you're using to
decide that these experts are
objectively dog [__] whether they can
be objective or they're subjectively
giving things criteria. And when they
they you look at their determinations
being based on money or some kind of
status quo, you can make a
determination. Oh, okay. Now there's
some ulterior motive behind this. All of
these things require so so with going
into something that's complex like art
or these things. It's it requires a lot
of determination, right, on on the
metrics you're looking at. So with if
we're just broad brushing it's difficult
to to lay down well these would be the
objective metrics that we would look at
but in specific instances when we get
when we when we get microscopic on
something we can make these
determinations
that's the importance like the concrete
the concrete like I said we know now
that it's a technological marvel it's
something that artisans did that we can
barely replicate we've even seen this
with teraprar that they found in the
Amazon it It contains terra cotta and
it's a self-healing soil. That's a piece
of technology and artisan craft that
created that thing. It's it's it's it's
art in its it's it's it's adv the the
advanced nature of the humans that did
that, right? It's something unique. But
if we just looked at it and said it's
soil, it's [__] Yes, we have to hyper
analyze things. The same thing that I
brought up with data and these things.
If I broad brush, I look like a I look
at an equation. I'm an [__] I go,
there's letters and there's no numbers
in there. That's not math. That's
letters. But I'm a dumbass. It requires
somebody with understanding to look at
these things deeply and actually analyze
whether you've already subjective.
>> You've already conceded that every
human, including an expert, will have
subjectivity in how they value
something. Correct.
>> Well, that's just human nature.
>> Correct. So you acknowledge you'll never
have the perfectly objective expert,
right?
>> Subject.
>> If we work on matrix, we can come to
determination.
>> But that's the point. So So here's the
point, right? WHEN I'M LIKE, OKAY, WHAT
IS OBJECTIVELY GOOD ART? And you're
like, the way we determine what's good,
>> I'm sorry. What is objectively art? The
way we determine what is objectively art
is experts of the day tell us,
>> right?
>> Yes.
>> Okay. And then I say and then you
determine
>> and then I'm LIKE SO YOU ACCEPT THAT
RIGHT NOW YOU SAY NO BECAUSE THE EXPERTS
OF TODAY ARE USING SUBJECTIVITY AND I
SAY BUT ISN'T it true that let me let me
finish and I say but all experts
according to you will use subjectivity
to some degree and you say yes. Now, the
only way FOR YOU TO GET OUT OF THIS SORT
of infinitely regressive cycle is TO
SAY, "BUT HERE ARE THE OBJECTIVE METRICS
OUTSIDE OF WHAT THE EXPERTS SAY, HERE
ARE THE OBJECTIVE rules for WHAT MAKES
SOMETHING ART." BUT IF THAT, but let me
last point. If that's the case, then the
experts ARE IRRELEVANT BECAUSE YOU COULD
GIVE US THE DOCUMENT RIGHT NOW. HERE'S
OBJECTIVELY WHAT MAKES ART WHEN IT COMES
TO THE REALM OF PAINTING. HERE'S
OBJECTIVELY WHEN IT'S ART.
>> YES, we can. Okay. Specifically with
paintings we can do that right. So we
can say I can look at the experts I go
okay how did you come to this
determination and then I would
>> we can skip that part of the
conversation. You you yourself have the
metrics of what objectively makes
something artificial.
>> I did not say that I am some kind of um
expert that can that can do this. This
is
>> but it doesn't matter if you're an
expert. If the rules are objective both
experts and non-experts could see the
rules.
>> So what's the rules? If if you well well
it requires understanding everything
requires understanding otherwise you
would say that a child can objectively
analyze a scientific equation.
>> Are there are there DO THEY OKAY TODAY
DOES THERE EXIST OBJECTIVE EXPERTS ON
PAIN?
>> YES.
>> OKAY. In the past
>> how would we know if they expert and
they are they judging something
objectively or subjectively
>> historically have there been objective
experts on painting?
>> Yes. Then surely they put pen to paper
and told us objectively what makes art
in the realm of painting. Where is that
document?
>> Yes.
>> Okay. Let's see the document.
>> I I mentioned to you we have the seven
law the seven rules of art. Composition
>> structure color tonality.
>> Okay. Who where's the book that tells me
exactly
>> properties?
>> Okay. Give me the book that I could look
at read and understand the book and then
every painting I look at I can say this
is art. Just I just I can I just told
you right here we have objective
metrics. There's the seven met metrics
that are the base course. Line, shape,
form, color, value, space, texture,
balance, movement, rhythm, patterns,
contrast, unity, emphasis.
>> Who wrote that book?
>> Experts came to these determinations.
>> Give me a name.
>> Well, I mean, I'm going to have to
Should I source to you who who came up
with these?
>> I mean, YOU'RE RATING SOMETHING. I'M
ASKING WHO WROTE IT. THAT'S IT.
>> OKAY.
>> I mean, you have the book, right? Who is
it?
>> I mean, dude, um I told you I'm
>> Is that a book?
>> Listen, I'm an African redneck. I They
have pen and paper. Rob, I thought it
was
>> I'm playing with computers.
>> I THOUGHT IT WAS A BOOK. I THOUGHT YOU
WERE JUST HOLDING A BOOK like that was
reading all the
>> I write [__] like a normal
>> All right, FINE. SO, THAT'S JUST
RESEARCH YOU'VE DONE. It's not one
SPECIFIC BOOK. SO, A COUPLE THINGS. ONE,
WHY HAS NO artist just put pen to paper
and explain quite clearly, here's
objectively what's art, HERE'S WHAT'S
NOT. WHY HASN'T THAT HAPPENED IF IT'S
JUST OBJECTIVE?
>> WELL, it's because the the societal
consensus of this is that it's
subjective. We have books on what what
determines biology, but there seems to
be debate over it.
>> But even the experts,
>> so we going to are we going to say that
biology doesn't matter because there's
discussion over it.
>> No, it's completely different. Right. As
I've explained, the parrot is the
parrot. No matter what the context
surrounding the parrot is, the parrot is
the parrot. That is not the same with
art. As even you've admitted,
circumstances
objective was to paint a parrot, we can
look at it objectively and say that does
not look like a parrot.
>> It doesn't matter. That doesn't mean
it's not art.
>> It does. If the school and the desired
outcome was to paint a parrot, I can say
that this is not a good painting of a
parrot.
>> Good's irrelevant. Is it a
representation of a parrot?
>> No.
>> What says who? Someone might say, "Yeah,
>> it doesn't have feathers, Rob. It's a
[__] hand."
>> That's the objective major.
>> LET'S GO BACK. LET'S GO BACK TO WHAT YOU
JUST SAID.
>> WHERE THE FEATHERS?
>> You said there's seven criteria when it
comes to painting, right?
You you just listed them off. Rapid
firely line structure blah blah. You
remember that, right? Are there any
other things outside of those seven
things?
>> They are. So, so Rob, obviously there's
a large category and it's the same
thing. So why I make the determination
that the experts are [__] is not on my
subjective opinion. It's on an objective
opinion of looking how they categorize
what they consider art. So if I go,
well, we're going to see what the
experts say and the experts say stupid
[__] I can query the experts and say on
which metrics did you judge this? And if
they go my feelings, I'm going to go
you're how how does that make you an
expert?
>> Okay, maybe fair enough. But the problem
then lies with you appealing TO THE
EXPERTS. I'M SAYING THAT IF you're
saying it's objective, right? If I'm
you, right? You pick this category and I
presume this
>> objectivity requires some kind of
authority.
>> Okay, listen. YOU PICK THIS CATEGORY. I
ASSUME it sounds like this is something
that you've thought about. It's not just
something you pick for the sake of
arguing, right? This is something you
truly believe.
>> Correct. It's because I care about that
the the the whole structure of art,
music, everything is in the [__]
toilet.
>> I Okay.
>> And we have a big problem with AI
ruining society.
>> But listen, I sympathize with a lot of
it. But my point to you is then I would
think that in your efforts to sort of
sit down and think about this, you would
have been like, here's a comprehensive
list of objectively what makes something
art, RIGHT? AND SO LIKE FOR EXAMPLE, LET
ME FINISH. LET me finish. Let me finish.
So when IT COMES SO I'M LIKE, OKAY, IN
THE REALM OF PAINTING, ONE OF THE MOST
common forms of what we colloally call
art, what makes it art and what doesn't?
And you rattle off some things. I'm
like, is that comprehensive? You're
like, well, no. Well, why wouldn't you
at the bare min? BECAUSE IT SOUNDS LIKE
IF I SAY, you know, if I would say
something like THIS IS OBJECTIVELY A
SANDWICH. I WOULD SIT DOWN AND THINK OF
THE CRITERIA OF THIS IS if I SAY IT'S
OBJECTIVE WHETHER THIS IS THE EXACT
CRITERIA it needs to be to be a
sandwich. BUT IT SEEMS LIKE WHAT YOU'VE
DONE IS LIKE THERE'S AN OBJECTIVE
ANSWER, BUT I HAVEN'T REALLY CAME TO IT.
I haven't really
>> Well, I told you if there's a higher
order skill set that's applied to
something that makes it unique, a
learned a learned skill and somebody
using a learned skill/ccraft
to achieve a specific desired outcome.
That is when it would get the
categorization.
>> OKAY, BUT EVEN THAT I COULD QUIBBLE with
this. Uh there's this movie. I enjoyed
it. You might like it though. There is
there is a little bit of a wiener in it,
so forgive that. There's this movie
called Bronson. It stars Tom Hardy.
>> I know Joe Bronson. It's got um Tom
Hardy in it. Good.
>> It's a great movie. I don't know if you
liked it. I enjoyed the movie
thoroughly. Great movie, man. If you
guys are like Tom Hardy's a [__]
master in that movie. There is a little
bit of a NAKED SCENE, BUT IT'S NOT
GRATUITOUS.
>> THAT WASN'T GOOD.
>> UH ANYWAYS, RIGHT, THAT GUY IN REAL
LIFE, this Bronson character, here's his
story. Basically, he's like some dude
who's like a common thug. He gets sent
to prison and he keeps beating the [__]
out of everyone in these like prisons in
Britain to the point where he's like
dangerous.
>> Yeah. He's originally in there for like
a two-year charge or some [__] and he
ended up because he keeps getting in
fights with the GUARDS AND [__] HE'S IN
THERE like the rest of his life, right?
Even though his crime outside wasn't so
heinous that would require life in
prison. One point as part of their
prisoner rehabilitation, they give him
some painting materials.
>> AND LIKE ALMOST instantly he's painting
phenomenal art. NOW, THIS WASN'T
particularly learned.
>> He just had a NATURAL TALENT. SO, IS
THAT NOT ART?
>> SO, that's the that's the point. How
would he how would he know how to
replicate something if he if he didn't
do repetition on it?
>> Well, are you telling me that it's not
possible for the first time someone puts
uh a a brush to paper to create art the
first time?
>> No, of course.
>> Be possible. No, it wouldn't be
possible.
>> Of course, it would be. Do you need to
learn how to hold a pen to use a pen?
>> Well, yes.
>> Yes. So, there's a lot of metrics that
go into a skill set. So, understanding
metallergy is not the only thing that's
require
you to require how to learn to grip the
pen. There's a lot of learning that went
into this, right?
>> Yes. But it's Yes. But it So, now we sit
with the replication. So the the learned
skill or skill or craft what defines a
skill or craft would be that it's that
it's something that that has a high
skill set towards it. It wouldn't be it
wouldn't just be well if if is something
a skill if everybody can do it.
>> Yes.
>> How is it a skill if everybody can do
it?
>> Is writing a skill?
>> So breathing is a skill?
>> No. That's a biological function. A
skill would be something. Is writing a
skill?
>> Is burping a skill?
>> Again, another biological
>> biological function. Yeah.
>> Is writing a skill?
>> Yes, writing is a skill.
>> Okay. Almost everyone in the Western
world could do that.
>> Yes. But then but then it would be what
they're writing. Yes. Writing is a skill
that everybody can do.
>> So then but that's writing. Is that art?
>> Well, but that's NOT THE QUESTION YOU
ASKED. You asked can you have a skill?
You said in order for something to be a
skill, IT HAS TO BE SOMETHING THAT MOST
people can't do. You concede that's not
the case
>> at a high level.
>> Well, wait a minute. Like what does high
level mean? That becomes subjective at
its own interpretation. Who gets to
determine when something's low level?
>> Here's your objective metric. Top 5% in
the world.
>> Based on what criteria?
>> I just made it up.
>> Right. Subjective.
No, I'm it's an objective metric I'm
giving.
>> So, for example, WE'VE BEEN TALKING
ABOUT OBJECTIVE metric in the world.
>> Let's talk about literature. Who gets to
DETERMINE WHAT'S THE CRITERIA for
determining what the best writer is? The
top 5% of writers that would be art
>> who determines.
>> So, who determines?
>> Right. That's my question. What what
what would that would be is
we would actually attribute writing a
lot of that we would attribute to again
historical value is has big significance
in it right so why why why Lord of the
Rings great it was great literature was
one of the first things that gave us
proper fantasy in the world we
understand that that's why Lord of the
Rings is legit a lot of these things
carry weight because of sentence
structure
>> sentence structure how the story
unfolds. Um the the how the chapter
layouts are done metrics.
>> Let's take Lord of the Rings for a
second.
>> Let's just Would you think that even if
>> a bunch of fantasy books that came after
it came before it? Let's say Dune came
before it and bunch of other fantasy
books, right? Would you still think even
without the historical significance that
Lord of the Ring is art and in fact good
art?
>> Yes.
>> Do you think that Tolken's poetry sucks
in it?
No,
>> kind of does the parts where Tolken I
think so. I think the parts in where
Tolken's writing poems in Lord of the
Rings, I don't think it's that good.
>> Now pros and that's only a small part OF
THE BOOK. HIS pros within the book I
think is phenomenal, BUT THE POETRY KIND
OF SUCKS.
>> I don't THINK ANYONE'S LIKE, YOU KNOW
WHY LORD OF THE RINGS IS GOOD sentence
structure. I don't think that.
I think it's because it evokes a
>> compelling nature of the story. Right.
>> That's right. It it it compellingly
articulates the hero's journey in a way
that's relatable, right? BUT IT'S HARD
TO PUT INTO quantifications objectively
why that's better than say the number of
other fantasy books.
>> In those books, he created his own
[__] language. That's pretty
objective why it's good. What do you
mean?
>> People have people have done that with
other [__] and it's still trash.
like
>> well it's an accumulation of ob
objective metrics that make that book
good right
>> but what
>> if how is there tell me something if it
was purely subjective how how how does
it have any classification as being
great if it's all subjective if
everything just comes down to some kind
of subjective determination then we
couldn't objectively come to terms where
people go yes it's a good book even
though I didn't like it. Yes, it's a
piece of art in literature.
>> Well, one, I reject it. I think that a
lot of people could subjectively say
something's very good, and I might
completely disagree and say objectively
IT'S [__] LIKE BAD BUNNY. I THINK
OBJECT I THINK I WOULD SAY his
lyrics suck, right?
>> Yeah, but you know, rhythm, harmony, how
he vocalizes the how the songs it's it's
all [__] on objective matrix, not about
how I feel about it. It's just [__]
music.
>> I agree. I agree. like the autotune,
>> but on objective metrics, you can say
it's [__] right?
>> Fair enough. BUT YOUR YOUR QUESTION TO
me was if IT WAS SO HOW COULD IT BE SO
SUCCESSFUL IF THERE WASN'T objective
good things about it? I give you an
example OF SOMETHING THAT WE WOULD BOTH
AGREE OBJECTIVELY IS [__] AND YET IT'S
VERY POPULAR IN THE realm of art.
>> Yes, popularly popular doesn't designate
successful. successful kind of feels
like something that has no well well Rob
something can be popular right now but
that doesn't mean it's successful in the
terms of like let's like archival
properties if something is popular right
now it doesn't mean it's going to be
popular in 2 years being successful kind
of is is a is a thing that's kind of
determines a lasting
it's success almost deems lasting
popularity where popularity doesn't
doesn't necessarily literally mean that
something is good. It just means right
now attention is paid to it. Right.
>> One of those [__] centipedes. I hate
them. Just ran across my foot. Hate
those [__] The ones with the
big flop. I don't know if you get them
in South Africa, you know. Anyway, stay
the spiders. I CAN HANDLE CENTIPEDE.
YEAH, BUT THAT'S SORT OF COUNTER to what
you said earlier when I was like, well,
something historically could have value.
Like for example, if I create a song
that objectively [__] the tone of it
bad, the writing's bad, etc., and yeah,
it becomes historically popular. You
were like, "Yeah, but we don't care
about when we're evaluating art right
now, we don't give a [__] about the
future of it." Same would be true here.
>> Like now it's like now it's like we have
to make a determination whether or not
five years from now people will think
Bad Bunny is still significant. Maybe.
>> Yeah. But Rob, like like let's say like
that notebook of yours, right? Let's say
that notebook that you just wrote on.
Let's say all of your if, god forbid,
not obviously, but let's say your house
gets burned down or something and just
that notebook survives and you carry on
to to cure [__] cancer and you lead
the crusade that saves the western
world. That thing would be a piece of
art historically. It would be considered
as holy [__] This is something.
>> I don't I don't know that I would
consider it art. SO, BUT WE CANNOT make
future determinations right now because
that means we're [__] we we're not
mediums
right. So, TWO THINGS HERE. ONE, I think
that I would acknowledge that there's
historical value in it, but I don't know
that I consider it art. And secondly,
getting back to THE TOLKEN DISCUSSION,
THE QUESTION WAS, you made the point,
how could it be so popular if it wasn't
objectively good? I give you an example.
Then you're like, okay, but how could it
have staying power?
>> What was the example? No, you gave me
you gave me a what aboutism.
I gave you an answer.
>> Why is it Why wouldn't it be considered
art?
>> Listen, this is the
>> What about bad findings?
>> No, no, listen listen. You made a claim,
right? And I provided an example that
disproved the claim. Your claim was IF
IT'S NOT OBJECTIVELY GOOD, how did it
become so successful? AND I SAID, HERE'S
A PIECE OF art that we both agree isn't
objectively good, but it's became
remarkably successful. TO WHICH YOUR
COUNTER WAS, "YES, BUT IT WON'T HAVE
staying power," which I think is sort of
moving the goalpost. But we can think of
things that objectively we think aren't
very good and yet they've had staying
power. Like those things exist that
we're like, I don't get it. Like,
>> no, the value of Lord of the Rings is
the fact that it's been considered great
for so long, right? But there's
>> the consistency of something being
considered good attributes to an
objective metric whether it's good.
>> No,
>> classical music is great because we
still listen to it today. There's [__]
we don't listen to today because it was
probably [__]
>> OKAY, BUT PEOPLE STILL SO HOW LONG DO WE
HAVE TO GO before we say, "Oh, that many
years went by and it's still listened
to."
>> It would depend on when it's analyzed.
When you objectively analyze it, right?
Wait, wait, wait, wait. What? That seems
to be a nonw answer, right? When was
classical music objectively something
value?
>> WHAT? OKAY. SO, AT WHAT POINT DID WE SAY
ENOUGH TIMES GONE by that the fact
people still like classical music proves
that it's OBJECTIVELY GOOD? 50 YEARS,
100 years, 200 years.
>> Well, I mean, if if if a long period of
the longer the period would add to the
value, right?
>> Okay. But at some point
>> wouldn't be this is the this is the
point.
>> But again, WE'RE NOT INTERESTED.
>> You're not going for a threshold
breaker.
>> No, but it's NOT WHEN IT ADDS TO THE
VALUE. YOU'RE SAYING AT SOME POINT WE
COULD SAY SOMETHING'S OBJECTIVELY good
if it's still popular after a certain
amount OF TIME. AND IF THAT PROVES THAT
IT WAS OBJECTIVELY GOOD. CORRECT.
>> YES.
>> OKAY. SO, how many years ago did [__]
Andy Warhol paint those stupid Campbell
soup cans?
Yeah.
>> AND BUT HE STILL THINKS THAT'S
PHENOMENAL. WAS THAT 60 70 YEARS AGO?
>> YEAH. But I mean that that's that's
because of Andy Warl, right? Because of
the name attached to that would be your
objective metric.
>> See now see you make claims and then
what I'M LIKE OKAY HERE'S A COUNTER
EXAMPLE. THEN you bring IN A NEW
CRITERIA. AH WELL IT'S NOT THAT JUST
BECAUSE ANDY WARHOL'S paintings that you
think are dog [__] 70 years later people
still SAY ARE IMPRESSIVE. BUT THAT'S
JUST BECAUSE HE'S ANDY WARHOL. But you
just said that if SOMETHING WAS STILL
SUCCESSFUL 70 YEARS LATER, THAT WOULD
PROVE that it was objectively good.
>> Rob, does does a watch increase in value
the longer it goes on? Like a Rolex?
>> So if if it's one year old or two years
old, the value keeps increasing. Some
things, yes, it adds to the objective
nature of its value.
>> Well, it depends. Yes and no. It depends
on the object.
>> It also depends on the rarity. Another
objective natur. But these are a bunch
of different criteria. This doesn't
answer the point that you were just
making. Are you willing to concede that
just because something stays popular for
a long time doesn't objectively mean
that it's good art or art.
>> Will you concede that?
>> No. Well, I would say that that
popularity over time would be one of the
criteria that would be used
>> again. But it's again it seems that
what's I think the very nature of this
conversation
>> we use different criteria for different
things. So you keep jumping now music
then painting then this then that. So
you also keep jumping, right? So yes,
then my answer is going to keep shifting
and it seems like I'm not consistent,
but you're changing art is a broad
category of things. What I'm saying is
it seems that you're continually giving
so many criteria and the importance of
such criteria that you by definition are
SHOWING THAT IT'S SUBJECTIVE. YOU
OUTLINE SOMETHING and I point out like,
well, here's why I fundamentally think
that's not true. AND THEN YOU JUST BRING
YES, BUT HERE'S AN ADDITIONAL CATEGORY
WE HAVEN'T TALKED ABOUT THAT COULD MAKE
something
>> if we keep it if we keep it let's if we
keep it in music like you you you said
things in music have lasting power
because that would be one of the
objective metrics we judge by whether it
is considered art if it has staying
power.
>> Okay. So if it just
>> would be one of the matrix only metric.
>> If it meets the bare minimum
>> you keep going. This is the only metric.
If it meets the bare minimum of what we
would consider a song,
>> right?
>> Yes.
>> Not art, just the bare minimum of what
we consider a song. Okay. And it has
STAYING POWER. IT'S POPULAR FOR A LONG
TIME. IS THAT ALONE enough to call it
art?
>> Not alone. One of the metrics.
>> Okay. It's one of the metrics. Now,
>> it's one of the objective metrics we can
use.
>> WHAT OTHER METRIC would be necessary to
consider it art?
uh in in that sense if it's if it's
something older so staying power we
would go well historical value why has
it we would look objectively why has it
persisted okay well it's it's probably a
good song it has good structure in this
this is why it does this is why things
that are popular fall off
but that doesn't seem to answer my
question right like like so in other
words so the answer you gave there I
noticed it wasn't Well, the tonality of
it. Well, the rhythm of it.
>> Yeah. Well, those are those are other
metrics. I just didn't mention them,
right? The tonality.
>> So, we have some formula. We take
historical popular or uh whether or not
it's still popular, historical context,
and the historical value of it, the tone
of it, the rhythm of it. So, we the
longevity, we get all these criteria.
>> So, what's the formula for when it's
considered art or not?
the it would be it would be as many
objective metrics that we can use to
analyze it whether we want to give it
the criteria of art
>> but it seems like it seems like you're
like here's a bunch of criteria right
but how you criteria I'm not making
>> okay MAYBE SO BUT HOW YOU UTILIZE THE
CRITERIA would be subjective
>> but do you understand that everything
you've brought up we we are analyzing
objective metrics of whether it's art or
not
>> let Um, if I could just like maybe ask
something of you, Chris, and maybe this
will help. Uh, we don't have to keep.
>> Is there something like
within cuz we've talked about painting,
music, writing. Is there something
within each of these that is like a
universal objective that like each of
these
>> excuse me sorry each of these have to
require that would be and then like
maybe if we could stick to that it
wouldn't matter if we're talking about
music paint whatever right
>> is there something that you have that
like universally across each
>> the person in that field having an
exceptionally high skill set in that
form
>> but Again, THAT'S NOT NECESSARY. THAT'S
JUST ONE random measure that you could
say could be measured. FOR EXAMPLE, YOU
COULD HAVE SOMEONE THAT CREATES a
commercial jingle that doesn't have that
much significant historically, but it's
an earworm. It just catches in your ear
and you're like, that's the simplest
jingle in the world. There's not a HIGH
TECHNICAL PROFICIENCY. THE GUY THAT made
it wasn't someone who did a lot of
music. He's just some random guy. AND
YET, IT STUCK WITH EVERYBODY. AND, you
know, not 80 years on, we still remember
that [__] song. You know, how about
uh the Andy Griffith Show?
>> Mhm.
>> Not a particularly [__] difficult
tune. Some layman like me could whistle
it out right here. [__] you know,
not a lot of technical proficiency. AND
YET IT sticks with people, right? AND SO
YOU WOULD SAY, WELL, EVEN THOUGH I SAID
THE UNIVERSAL THING IS IT REQUIRES
someone to be considered art that is
technically proficient, not there. AND
YOU'RE LIKE, WELL, THERE'S OTHER
CATEGORIES THAT THAT FITS the historical
context. So it's not universal.
>> Well, no. With with that with that
necessarily we could we could go well is
this is this does this fall under the
category of art or is it just a popular
thing? It seems to be a popular thing
because it has the earworm
characteristic.
But if if if I was to say is okay. Yeah.
So I don't want Yeah. Cuz I don't want
to do that. But yeah. So, so you would
still be able to look at it's
objectively how what instrument was used
the chord structure then
>> yeah well
so then probably not it's it's just a
it's just a basic thing no that would
probably
>> but but again but again like it seems
that you ARE LIKE THIS IS WHAT IT seems
to me that you have said here are the
objective criteria
>> Mhm.
>> Right. And those will differ slightly
from discipline to discipline. For
example, you can't use tonality in a
painting, right? You can't use color
theory.
>> You can use tonality of the colors,
right?
>> Well, but you get my point. There are
specific things. Rhythm is it doesn't
really one to one apply. There are
things like that though. I get that,
right? From painting to like there ARE
BUT NONETHELESS. SO, there are different
things in different forms of art. But
what is the universality, right? And
you're like, well, the universality is
it all has to do, in fact, the
definition you gave me earlier, you said
this. You said a learned craft to create
a desired outcome.
>> That was the definition you gave me.
Okay. AND SO THEN YOU'RE LIKE, YOU
FURTHER ELABORATE on that. Well, IT'S
IT'S THAT YOU'VE BECOME TECHNICALLY
proficient in that skill. You're better
than sort of average people.
>> Top percent top.
>> I should add that. Yeah.
>> Okay. So, what by the way, top percent?
Top 10%. Top 20. Like I said, let's I
top five is the object
five
>> in order to be considered art.
>> Yeah,
>> that's shocking.
>> Why?
>> 95% of people that like write stories
aren't art then?
>> No.
>> I mean, I think that's shocking.
>> It sounds like they it's books. It's
it's writing. But is it does it have the
higher categorization of art? Probably
not.
>> Okay.
>> It would depend how we look at it.
You've eliminated far more than I
thought even there. But nonetheless,
right, the point is, right, you then
also agree that there are times where
something could be considered art that
has nothing to do with the technical
proficiency of the artist.
>> Like what?
>> Like
this notebook could be art.
if if the historical value supersedes
the fact. But then what adds to the the
the objective metrics of the historical
piece of it would be the the the
objective nature of who the person is
that created it. So now that becomes a
metric because that person would have to
be in the top 5 percentile or some
person of very high significance for it
to have historical value in that sense
right with your notepad like I
explained.
>> Okay. But again like I think that then
it doesn't have to do with the technical
proficiency. So when you say that that
somehow is universal that's not the
case. THAT COULD BE ONE OF the metrics
but there could be others.
Well, speak easy said, you know, is
there one broad brushing metric that I
would use for all categories of art? So,
I said high technical proficiency,
>> but that's not true. You wouldn't use it
for all category.
>> Well, it would apply.
>> It's one of the more common ones that
you could say could could apply TO
EVERYTHING, BUT IT'S NOT NECESSARY.
>> It it it would be necessary. Technical
proficiency. We just gave an example why
technical proficiency wouldn't be
>> technical proficiency in in in some kind
of like we said with the historical that
would be the highest technical
proficiency with a human being they
would have to be in a high percentile of
technical proficiency. It might be
attributed to something else that's not
but it would be a factor of being a
unique individual or some kind of
technical proficiency. Now that you've
said only the top 5% in a particular
category would be art. This is
interesting. So if we go back to the
conversation about the sword or the
butter knife,
only 5% of knives that were efficient,
that did their jobs are art,
but the artisan created A TOOL THAT
WORKED WITHOUT FAIL. WHY WOULDN'T THAT
BE ART?
Only 5%
>> only five. Well, see that would that now
it would be Is it an old knife? Is it a
new knife? I mean, whatever. We'll say
an old knife.
>> Cool. Old knife. Then it would be
determined on what what there would be
other metrics that would also apply with
the technical proficiency. But it
wouldn't be a if if it was a completely
[__] knife, there would probably be no
value to it.
>> Okay. But still, you're saying that your
objective nature is only the top roughly
5%. But when I talk to you about WHEN I
TALK TO YOU ABOUT ITEMS of utility that
you said were art, like the end table,
the knife, right? It seemed that you
were like, "Well, it's art because
technical profession,
>> but you were like, but it's art because
the the the utility of it that it
worked. IT HAS NOTHING TO DO ABOUT the
aesthetic appeal. It has to do with the
utility of the device."
>> But
>> yeah, aesthetic aesthetic appeal is a
subjective metric,
>> right?
>> Like I even said in the Greeks with the
with the with with their description, it
goes outside of aesthetic appeal. Not
they don't they didn't factor in
aesthetic appeal.
>> I mean I disagree. I think a lot of the
Greeks and the art they looked at
definitely were like sculptures etc were
looking at aesthetic appeal. But if
we're going to call items of utility
>> well a lot of that was replicating
right? So if you look at early art like
with statues right it was replicating
human form to a very high skill level
like this like David. David David has
aesthetic appeal because it's imitating
the human in a in very accurately
>> nonetheless because of the high skill
set it has aesthetic appeal
>> but I think it's not a I don't think we
say only only replicating if that was
the case if that's what truly was valued
in art then the photograph would be the
highest form
>> it directly replicates
>> it's one of the matrix. Right.
>> Right. But again, but we're talking
about
>> there's a lot of objective metrics we
can use.
>> THERE'S OBJECT YOU COULD SUBJECTIVELY
DETERMINE WHICH objective metrics make
something art. That's my argument.
>> No, we can objectively look at objective
metrics.
>> That's not true. Like for example, like
let's go on. You said that there
requires some level of technical
proficiency unless there's some sort of
like I died therefore this now has value
as art. Well, that's not true. There's
like let's let's do IT THIS WAY. LET'S
SAY THAT THERE'S someone uh let's see if
I could think of a give me a musician
like a modern musician that you think is
a high artist.
>> Uh Trent Resner.
>> Okay. 9in nails, right?
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. Now, let's say Trent Resner puts
together a music piece and it's very
simple. It's just like one piano. It's
very simple notes on a piano, very
simple vocals,
>> right?
>> And it's beautiful. You think it's an
AMAZING PIECE, BUT OBJECTIVELY IT'S
SIMPLE. IS THAT ART? OBJECTIVELY,
did Trent Resner make it?
>> Yes, he made it.
>> Okay, there's your answer.
>> So, it's not art because it's art
because of the artist.
>> It's one of the metrics. Yes, the person
has a big influence on whether something
is art or not. It's why it something
that somebody does like Picasso, if he
just writes his name or does a simple
quick drawing, it's considered art
because Picasso did it. If I did it,
nobody would give a [__]
>> But it has nothing to do about whether
people would give a [__] It has to do
with whether or not something
objectively is art.
>> Yes. And the person making it is one of
the objective metrics, is it not?
>> No, it's it is an objective.
>> The person who makes it not objective,
>> right? We could say the person that
makes it objective, but it doesn't
relate in the same way that you're
suggesting, right? Although that may be
true, the idea should be that I should
be able to look at something and
determine whether or not it meets these
objective qualifications. That's art. If
what you're saying is true, then these
two things must therefore be true to
COME AFTER. IF ANYBODY ever exhibits
some sort of technical proficiency that
you think qualifies as art, puts them IN
THE TOP 5%. THEN EVERYTHING they ever do
thereafter is art.
Correct.
>> If it's in the thing that they carry a
high level of expertise in, it would
probably be
>> even if they say THIS WAS [__] THIS I
LITERALLY [__] threw paint on a
[__] You're like, "Yes, but you
CREATED THAT BEAUTIFUL [__] PAINTING
before that we all agreed was amazing.
So now when you just throw paint in a
canvas, we're like that's art." EVEN
WHEN YOU SAY, "THIS IS [__] IT'S
NOT ART. I PUT NO THOUGHT BEHIND IT. ANY
[__] MONKEY COULD HAVE DONE THIS."
STILL ART because of your name.
>> Yeah. My determination wouldn't matter.
If an artist makes something that has
high proficiency, they are of a certain
caliber. Yes, it would probably be art.
It's the same. It's the same thing we
deal with.
>> Everything. So, this would also entail
that Trent Resner could never do any
music that wouldn't be considered art.
Nothing. It's impossible for him.
>> Let me think about that. It would be
impossible for him to make something
that's not art. Well, it would it would
still come down to other object. So, it
wouldn't just be merely because he's
trained Resner, right? It would be
because we would we would then also be
attributing other objective metrics to
it, right?
>> Again, what you're showing what you're
>> if he makes a piece of [__] it would
probably not be art.
>> BUT THAT'S THE POINT I MADE. IF HE MAKES
SOMETHING THAT'S very simple, YOU'RE
LIKE, "YEAH, IT WOULD STILL BE ART
BECAUSE HE'S TRENT RESNER." NOW YOU'RE
LIKE, "WELL, unless it was A PIECE OF
[__] THEN IT WOULDN'T be art."
>> Yeah. Well, if the other if if we looked
at the objective, if he just made noise
and recorded that, that would probably
not be art, right?
>> Who says if he made a simple song,
it would probably, if we look at the the
other matrix, okay, Trent Resnner made
it. This is this is a simple song. It's
got harmony. It's got melody. It might
not be his best work, but it would
probably be considered art. there would
be other determinations. We don't just
use one determination.
>> The point that I'm trying to make and I
think you're exhibiting this all over.
YOU'RE LIKE THERE ARE OBJECTIVE METRICS.
LIKE FOR EXAMPLE, ONE OBJECTIVE metric
is you objectively know who created it
and you objectively know whether or not
they've had success in the past, right?
THAT'S AN OBJECTIVE MEASURE. MY CLAIM TO
YOU IS you are taking what you call
objective metrics and then subjectively
applying them into determining whether
or not something's aren't. analysis
always come down to a subjective the the
analysing
>> thereby showing that your prompt is
incorrect.
>> Things can be I I remember I I I said
this things can be subjectively an
analyzed right but if you if you analyze
on objective metrics that is how it
should be done because there is always
objective metrics to judge these things
by. So when we supersede and say well
we're just going to be doing subjective
it there is no objective determinations
which we make this criteria upon that's
the problem because that's becoming
prevalent but there is all of the
discussion has rolled around us
discussing objective metrics and which
take priority you didn't really make an
argument for why subjective nature
>> real quick on the time check for both of
you uh it's about the 2hour mark but if
you're both still good to go we can I'm
still open. I'm enjoying it.
>> Yeah, you guys good. Keep it rolling.
All right. Yeah, keep it rolling. No
rush either way. So, I'll let you guys
know when we hit another hour.
>> Yeah. So, the problem the problem here
is right what we're say what I you
saying that something let's rephrase it
this way. You're saying that something
ought to be something. It has to be
practically possible in order for that
statement to make sense. Right.
>> Mhm. For example, I could say it ought
to be that no one sins, that no one ever
has malice in their heart. We can say
maybe, but it's just not practical. It
would never happen, right?
>> So that sort of loses the value of that
statement. SO WHEN YOU SAY THIS IS HOW
IT ought to be, but then you concede
it's impossible that there will always
be subjective interpretation. What's the
utility of your prompt?
>> Okay, so saying um art is objective in
its nature of there's objective metrics
towards it. Like I said, when we we
function with humans analyzing things,
we're not machines. So, we're probably
going to some kind of subjectivity is
going to play into it. We even have
people like Clarence what Terren Howard
saying that he has a different
interpretation of [__] math, which is
something that we all consider to be
objective. But because people can make
subjective determinations, that doesn't
mean that the the category of art
doesn't is is we should prioritize
subjective things too with this and not
just be looking at the objective nature
of.
>> But the problem is the problem is right
when we're talking about something like
math or something like biology etc.
We're talking about metrics that there's
basically like basically a super limited
amount of variables, right? We know 2
plus two is four because we could test
it over and over again and we see the
utility of it and we see HOW THAT'S
BENEFICIAL. ART'S different as you're
admitting here because what you're
saying is like I think and you might
disagree with me, but not only is it
more complex, but there's almost an
infinite amount of objective metrics
that you could use and you could claim
they're objective. That's fine. But the
problem is when you start to go from
like, well, here's one variable to
here's 1,000 variables that we could all
use and say their objective answers.
Tonality, rhythm, who was the artist,
have they had better art, was there
staying power, was it successful, IS
THERE HISTORICAL CONTEXT? AND YOU COULD
SAY IN EACH of these metrics, WE COULD
OBJECTIVELY MEASURE THEM, WHICH IS
DIFFICULT. BUT LET'S SAY FOR A SECOND I
COULD SEE THAT THE PROBLEM IS THERE are
so many of those HOW TO PUT WHICH WEIGHT
ON which metric and determine what the
formula would be when a combination of
all these metrics equals what's art will
always be subjective. Yes. Because like
with 1 + 1, right? These these things
these things we we understand them
fully. But when we're dealing with
unique um items in the world, these
things are not they don't have a set
numerical value like math does. That's
why there's complexity that comes into
play. So we have to look at as many
objective metrics towards giving it a
higher order claim to be art and not
just a drawing. Let me ask you this.
Could this be one of the objective
metrics that we decide whether or not
something's art? Making people feel
emotion.
>> Well, emotion is is completely
subjective, right?
>> Well, no.
>> So, how saying
emotion is is is is by its nature a
subjective thing, right?
>> Well, right. But we could objectively
measure whether or not people say it
makes them feel emotional.
>> How do we measure emotions? Well, you
could ask people
>> and then they would just give you a
subjective answer, right?
>> Maybe. But the same would be true of a
lot of the metrics you're talking about.
>> No, you can't somebody's emotion.
>> Well, we could ask a trans woman whether
she's a woman. Doesn't mean that that's
correct.
>> But nonetheless, like the metrics you're
using also subject subjectivity in the
interpretation of whether or not someone
was successful, whether or not someone
is an expert. You could say, well,
there's objective criteria, but not
really.
>> Well, we can assess whether they're an
expert on objective criteria. You don't
have to subjectively guess if they're
>> It's very difficult. It's very difficult
to do, right? It seems like even my
understanding, my understanding is even
the Greeks would say that a lot of art
used in the context of aesthetics was to
bring forth sort of an emotional appeal
to people. Even the Greeks thought that,
>> right? there was something unique about
whether or not something was artistic or
it was good art and that it resonated
with people and brought feelings out in
people.
>> Well, that could be an attribute of it.
It but but the attribute the the
attribute of how it makes people feel. I
wouldn't say is a good judgment of how
to judge something is how it makes
somebody feel.
>> You have to tell me why that is a good
judgment. You might not think it's a
judgement, but why wouldn't it be a
judgment that should be used?
>> Well, we don't base law on feelings,
>> but we don't base the law on you're
allowed to break the law if you're a
certain person, but that's how you're
evaluating art.
>> Oh, well, no, it seems like we do do
that in society.
>> The idea is then it ceases to become
law, at least in the English common law
sense.
>> Yeah. Well, I mean, but yes, but but but
yes, like so an an effect of an art
piece could be an emotional outcome, but
there is no way to objectively determine
emotion is some like this is the emotion
this painting causes to everybody,
right? So that's why I say it's not
really but again that might be true that
you can't measure that, but you could
measure whether or not people feel
passionate about something.
You're already acknowledging this when
you talk about the lasting success.
>> Well, lasting success would be a
determination of whether something with
with stands the test of time.
>> How do you archival properties with
paintings?
>> How do you determine whether it stood
the test of time?
>> You look at the amount of time it's it's
withstanded, right?
>> Yeah. But how do you measure? What do
you mean withtood? An what do you mean?
Well, it's the same thing that gives
value to a bonsai tree is the age of the
tree.
>> NO, BUT AGAIN, HOW DO YOU DETERMINE LIKE
RIGHT NOW is check, you know, right now
is [__] uh Vagner's fourth symphony.
Did it stand the test of time?
>> Yes.
>> Really? Vagner's fourth.
>> Can you hum it for me?
I'm thinking of Mozart's fourth now.
Yeah.
>> So, did Vagner's fourth stand the test
of time?
>> I mean, it it
>> I just made that up. I don't even think
there is a Vagner's fourth,
>> right? Well, the point I'm trying to
make, what are the metrics we could
determine whether or not something was
stood the test?
>> What do we do? Do we go to Spotify AND
SEE HOW MUCH IT'S PLAYED?
>> How do we determine whether or not
something stood the test of time?
Well, if if it if it is still played
after a set period of time, right?
>> Well, that might not be art,
>> maybe a small percentage of people with
really bad tea taste continue to play
something.
>> Yeah, but but that would be one of the
objective metrics, right? Uh uh when it
was created, we know. And then whether
it's played today, we can objectively
determine the time that has that has
passed. You can say how much it's played
today would be objective. But the term
withtood the test of time in any
meaningful way is subjective.
>> Well, we could we could we could say is
is it still considered good chord
structure? Is the melody still
consistent? Is all of these things. Was
it done again
proficiency?
>> These are these are different metrics
that you could talk. And by the way,
people within those meta debates may
disagree on what the best chord
structure is, what's good chord
structure. NONETHELESS, LIKE FOR
EXAMPLE, I I I DO WANT TO get to that
part, BUT LIKE FOR EXAMPLE, classical
music saw a huge resurgence thanks to
Looney Tunes,
>> right? Like if you watch those old
Looney TUNES LIKE ROADRUNNER AND [__]
>> why a lot of us know classical music is
because of cartoons,
>> RIGHT? NOW THAT THAT STYLE OF CARTOON
sort of gone to the wayside, now
classical music won't withstand the test
of time AS WELL, DOES THAT mean that
it's more or less art?
No. Well, like like I said, that would
be one of the one of the metrics, right,
that attributes it. But it wouldn't be
solely because something withtood the
test of time. That wouldn't be the sole
criteria,
>> right? But again, we get But what I'm
saying is like the evoking when I talk
about the evoking of emotion, it seems
to be similar to the criteria of
withstanding the test of time that
people still find meaning in something
to the point that they desire to listen
to it even after a bunch of years. Like,
well, if some well, but but Rob, see,
this is the problem, right? If we go,
well, because something evokes emotion
and it means something to the person
that made it,
>> then I we can just make an argument that
your children are art
>> because you made your children and they
have an emotional you have an emotional
attachment to this. It makes you
feelings. You your child is not art.
>> No, I think that it is a criteria that
we could use, not a sole criteria.
>> Yeah. The metrics that gives its its
value. Yes. That's why your child has
value to you, but that doesn't give it
the category of being art because it has
emotional value.
>> Well, I think that we can see that if
something is created with the intent of
being art and even if it's not
technologically proficient, it resonates
with a group of people that feel a deep
emotional connection to it. even if it's
not technically proficient or done which
is completely subjective done by someone
that you feel has technical proficiency
in other works that they do. So
sometimes it would make it considered
art and sometimes not which again is
subjective as you've admitted like if
someone like Trent Resner did it. I
don't see why we wouldn't consider that
art. I just don't. Well, well, see, so
like with a human, it could say, well,
nobody has any emotional feelings about
the human, but that doesn't that doesn't
decrease their value because they're
human. With a piece of art, um that this
is now a completely different
discussion, right?
>> No, I think that I'm saying that my
interpretation would be that we should
consider that art. And let me let me
FURTHER PROVE WHY. WHAT IF a great
artist, let's say Trent Resner, what if
he wants to make a point? He wants to
make a critique of modern art. Modern
music. And so he intentionally subverts
all the rules of what we consider
objectively good music. Is that art?
>> Yes.
So then it it So based on the So you're
saying like just does a terrible piece
of music.
>> Correct. He intentionally evokes random
chord structure. The tonality is wrong.
The pitch is wrong.
>> Objectively then probably it WOULDN'T
BE. THE FACT
>> I completely disagree. I think that
certainly would be art.
>> Well, just because it's Trent Razner
that that does carry some significance.
But if we go well is the can this thing
be called it can be a song and it can
have some value because train did it but
that wouldn't put it put the the higher
category of now this is
>> I disagree and it's not because it's
Trent Resner even if it wasn't Trent
Resnner even if it was a no-name that
>> so you're saying that intent gives it
value
>> correct in this sense right that in this
sense your definition that like it
requires a certain level of proficiency
if you have that level of proficiency SO
HIGH THAT YOU KNOW exactly what exhibits
proficiency in each of these objective
metrics and intentionally subvert it. So
you didn't just accidentally make a
shitty picture. YOU INTENTIONALLY BROKE
ALL the rules of color theory. You broke
broke all the rules of sort of uh you
know the structure of the painting etc.
>> Yes.
>> BECAUSE YOU WERE LITERALLY MAKING A
point about art.
>> WHY ISN'T THAT ART?
WELL, because because the only
determination of whether it's art is the
intent.
>> That's what you believe or you're saying
that's what I'm showing?
>> Well, well, well, in in in that
criteria, right, it it breaks all of the
rules. So, it doesn't follow any of the
objective metrics of what makes it art.
The only thing that that the that claims
it to be art is the person and then
their intent.
>> So, you say that that's not art.
No.
>> If it's Trent Resner, is it now art?
>> No.
>> I disagree.
>> I think it meets your criteria.
>> I think it meets the criteria of showing
an expertise. It shows an expertise that
they know, right? This stuff they're
intentionally subverting for a reason in
order to critique.
>> That's why I think we intentional lack
of using expertise shows expertise.
If it's someone that has exhibited that
they know the expertise and is
intentionally subverting it, why
wouldn't it be art?
>> Do you think wings are
>> Well, see there, but there's things that
they do that are considered objectively
good, RIGHT?
>> YEAH, BUT A LOT OF THEIR STUFF IS
intentionally annoying as [__]
>> Intentionally like against what we would
consider to be a good song or good art.
They're intentionally subverting it.
Well, then not be. Well, listen, Rob.
So, if your intention is to not do art,
that is art, that is ridiculous.
>> If you go to me, my intention is to not
make art, so that's art.
>> No.
>> Does that make is that coherent to you?
>> If your int if your intention is to
criticize
>> like that doesn't even make sense.
>> No. If your intention is to criticize
what is deemed art right now, then yes,
it could be art.
So just because somebody says something
is art that makes it art?
>> No, not necessarily.
>> But what would be the other metric then?
>> Well, I think that it would there would
be subjective metrics that we could see
is what people's value was that they put
on it.
I I think that if someone feels
something's art and they're defining
art, I would define art. Like I was
looking I was like, how would I [__]
define it? Here's the definition. And I
would
>> well it seems that the the the nowadays
it's whatever the person feels is is
whether it's considered
>> sort of it's sort of that's sort of the
consciousness
>> well you kind of displayed it let me let
me let me give my definition let me give
my definition I think this definition
what I'm saying is if you intentionally
not do art and that's art that is
ridiculous
>> that's not true the definition that I
would say that this is remotely what I
would think is the conscious use of the
imagination in the production of objects
intended to be contemplated or
appreciated as beautiful as in the
arrangement of forms, sounds or words. I
would take out the word beautiful and
say meaningful.
When something is art or not, like
almost anything could be considered art
if people consider art. Whether or not
it's good is different, but that's not
the question before us. We could say
it's dog [__] This is art. MY KID DID
IT IN ART CLASS.
>> WELL, I would say that's a drawing. I
wouldn't say that's art.
>> I would say it's art. And I don't see
the utility of sort of changing the word
to say that wouldn't be the case. You
might SAY IT'S NOT GOOD ART. It's only
meaningful to you. But why wouldn't it
be art?
>> I wouldn't even make a determination of
whether it's good or not because to you
it's good because your son did it,
right? Or your child did it. That makes
it good to you. But I would say it's so
for you it's a good drawing. Would I say
that that falls under the higher
category of of of assessment that now
designates it at art or designates it to
be art? No,
>> I dis I don't even see the utility in
changing the word the definition of the
word in the way you're doing it.
>> Yeah, you disagree. But but I mean
majority of experts would probably say
no.
>> The majority of experts today you
disagree with you admit as much. You say
they suck.
>> Well, it depends. Like I said, to be
considered expert, right? It wouldn't be
an appeal to to some kind of person
claiming to be an expert. There would be
some kind of objective metrics to
determine whether somebody's an expert.
>> Okay. But the people right now, right,
based on
>> I can't just say I'm a pilot and we
would look, well, did you go to [__]
flight school? This man otherwise just
say I'm a woman. I'm a woman.
>> This man RUNS THE LOU. HE'S SOLD
PAINTINGS THAT HAVE SOLD FOR $10 MILLION
THAT HE'S CREATED. HE'S WON EVERY MAJOR
ART COMPETITION. HE THINKS THE BANANA ON
the wall is art.
>> That's what we're dealing with. The
problem is all the metrics, all the
metrics that we would SAY WAS LIKE WE'RE
NOT TALKING ABOUT, YOU KNOW, ALL of a
sudden I wake up and I GO, I AM AN
EXPERT ARTIST. WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
PEOPLE THAT OUR SOCIETY HAS GIVEN THE
ACCOLADES. YES, YOU ARE EXPERT ARTIST OR
YOU ARE EXPERT ART CRITIQUES AND STILL
YOU SAY OBJECTIVELY [__] THEY'RE
objectively
>> No. Well, what I would say is well, one
person saying it is a subjective
determination.
>> That's not what we're dealing with
>> because it's it's his opinion.
We would we we would have to use
consensus.
>> That's not what we're dealing with. You
know, THIS THE STATUS QUO IS NOT THAT.
YOU WOULD SAY THAT people right now that
have our society has
deemed experts in art are looking at
things like modern art that you think
are objectively [__] and saying this
is great.
>> Yeah.
>> OKAY. SO THIS ISN'T THE EXAMPLE OF JUST
ONE person saying something or a person
who has no qualifications whether they
are people that through our society our
society is deemed have the
qualifications.
>> Yeah. Can we judge their their their
crit can we judge their determination on
objective metrics?
>> But all critics are going to be
subjective.
>> Humans are subjective by nature. That's
what I'm saying.
>> Yes.
>> Yes. But a category is not subjective.
>> What I'm trying to tell you is we're
going
>> is art
is not subjective.
>> We're going in circles here. What I'm
trying to say though is to the point
that I was just making, right, is the
idea of I don't see the utility of
saying art's only the top 5% of
proficiency in a field. I think that you
could say that's high art or that's good
art or that's WORTHWHILE ART. BUT WHAT
IS WHAT IS THE UTILITY OF YOU'LL
ACKNOWLEDGE THIS colloquially as a
society? That's not how we use the word
art. Would you agree with that?
>> Yes. Colloally as a society, no.
>> OKAY. SO THEN WHAT IS THE UTILITY TO
SAYING THAT THE KID MAKING A DRAWING in
art class that's not art? What's the
utility in changing that definition?
>> So what what what everybody would agree
on objectively, right, is saying that is
a drawing that that child did. All
right? So so before we get to art,
right, if a kid does a drawing, we can
all objectively say that kid did a
drawing. Objectively, he did a drawing.
That's why this is important to me is we
do that now with with art which is a
higher category. It should it should be
upheld as a higher category. It's not
now in in a lot of senses which is the
problem. It used to be
I I I don't know that that's the case. I
don't know that it used to be that 95%
of the people doing drawings we said
that's not art. I would be interested in
seeing when that was the case. I don't
believe that's the case. And
nonetheless, it doesn't answer the
question.
>> YOUR INTERPRETATION HERE, YOU haven't
given a positive reason to change. The
impetus is on you as to why we should
change this language. And I haven't seen
a reason. It would BE NO DIFFERENT THAN
IF I CAME IN AND IMAGINE THAT I DID
THIS. I CAME IN AND SAID, "You know
what? We shouldn't call this a drawing.
We should call it a scribble. We should
all agree this is a scribble and that
even great paintings we could also call
scribbles. But this ISN'T A DRAWING
BECAUSE I THINK DRAWING SHOULD BE WHEN
YOU PUT PEN to paper and YOU'RE IN THE
TOP 50%. AND THEN IF YOU'RE IN THE TOP
5%, WE'LL CALL IT ART. THAT WAY THE
LANGUAGE IS MORE HYPER SPECIFIC. AND SO
WHEN WE SAY SOMETHING'S A DRAWING, WE
NOW SEE THAT THERE'S A YOU WOULD SAY,
WELL, THAT SEEMS TO BE TOTALLY
ARBITRARY. WHY WHY THE need to change
language LIKE THAT? THAT'S MY QUESTION
TO YOU. WHY CHANGE IT?
I'm saying that that I see
objectivity of the category of art is we
can use metrics to determine if
something is objectively art because art
should be upheld as a higher category.
use smaller smaller.
>> Why should there be held to as a higher
category
>> because its original inception carried
carried weight as a distinguishing
things under a higher branch of of being
higher than the the the the
normal subset of things?
>> No, I don't think
>> so. It would be a higher category above.
>> Even if I don't I think I don't think
you're correct. BUT EVEN IF THAT WAS
TRUE, WHAT'S THE UTILITY OF GOING back
there?
>> The utility of going back there is the
subversion of the the definition itself,
right? Like I that's why I use the bio
the biological definition that now we
working with gender and these things
that create confusion because now we can
subjectively determine things. I feel
that we are falling into the same trap
with art and it kind of gets co-signed
and most people just go yeah we can just
be whatever because it has a distinctly
more um difficult nature to kind of pin
down
>> but why not just say why not just say
sure you can call it art but it's [__]
art
>> what's what's the problem with that
>> why it's [__] [__] it's [__]
art
>> then why add art then why can't I just
say it's a [__] drawing Why does art
need to be in there?
>> Because what we've used art for, it has
meaning. The way we use the term, you
take art class. We should get rid of
that.
>> Artisan, like I said, the first thing
was techni technology and art artist.
Um, arte the the Latin which designates
a skilled thing.
>> Okay. Artisan comes from the it comes
from the root art. Correct.
>> Yes. Can do we subjectively decide
whether somebody's an artisan at their
craft?
>> Well, I'm going to
>> Yes.
And let me explain why. So, you would
say the difference between an artisan
and an artist is one is creating art for
utility and the other is creating for
aesthetics. Is that what you would say
the difference is?
>> So, an artisan creates art in the form
of a table, in the form of a knife. An
artist creates art in the form of a
painting, of a sculpture, of music.
>> Yes.
>> Okay. So therefore, seeing as how the
roots both art, that would mean that 95%
of people that consider themselves
artisan aren't
>> correct.
>> Well, we we we would be able to judge
them whether they are artisan, artisan
person, RIGHT?
>> SO THE GUY THAT FOR EXAMPLE, AN ARTISAN
could be someone who makes tables,
right? It's 1800. This guy makes tables.
Now, they're not the best tables in
town. THERE'S FIVE OTHER TABLE. THAT
GUY'S NOT AN ARTISAN. Then
>> just because you make tables that I
can't say I'm a artisan furniture
um designer or craftsman just randomly,
right?
>> BUT YOU THAT'S YOUR JOB. YOUR JOB IS
YOU'RE LITERALLY MAKING TABLES.
>> YEAH. But that's
>> Yeah. If you're not making tables, if
your [__] job is that you're an
astronaut and you said, "I'M AN
ARTISAN." YEAH. WE'D SAY THAT'S
NONSENSE. BUT IF YOUR JOB IS EVERY DAY
YOU SIT DOWN AND you make three tables,
you make one table every 3 hours, you
make three a day. WE WOULDN'T SAY, WELL,
YOU'RE ONLY AN ARTISAN if your tables
are in the top 5% of tables. You
wouldn't say that.
>> That means that means you're either,
let's say, a woodworker or these things.
Artisan is also another higher category,
right? It's the same thing as going we
can all call ourselves a master master
furniture maker is [__] Some person
is an is a is a is a apprentice. Another
person is a journeyman. We have
categories for these things that are
objective. There's determinations in
these things. Otherwise things like
master artisan art means [__]
>> I just don't believe you. I don't
believe you that this is how language
has ever been applied with the term
artisan. I don't believe you. I believe
that we'd be like
well I believe that the way we want I
believe that the vast majority if I'm
reading if I'm reading like historical
documents from like uh the medieval
times or the Renaissance and it says ah
we went to the square and the artisans
were working. THAT'S NOT THEM SAYING OH
THESE ARE THE TOP THIS SQUARE WAS SOLELY
MADE UP OF THE TOP 5% OF PEOPLE IN THE
FIELD. WHEN THEY SAY THE ARTISANS are
working this means people that were
applying manual characteristics in a
trade to craft things. artisans. That's
what it means by they're not using that
term to mean the top 5%.
>> You agree that's not how they would have
used that term.
>> How society uses things is not really of
relevance. I'm saying we should not be
doing some of the things that society
has. Society does a lot of things that I
don't think
>> your entire argument is the original
Greek interpretation of the word art was
this. Therefore, that's what it SHOULD
BE. SO WHEN I'M LIKE BUT WAIT A MINUTE
THE WAY WE'VE used the word artisan
right throughout history it's not been
as if you're suggesting it SHOULD BE AND
YOUR counter to THAT IT'S LIKE WHO GIVES
A [__] how people use the word that
doesn't mean it's
>> yeah well that that's the that's the
core of this right if if if word do if
words don't carry specific meanings and
weight to them we we are dwelling into
very deep weird waters and that is the
whole point for this IN A SUBJECTIVE
MANNER. YOU'RE LIKE, "NO, colloquially
what we've always CONSIDERED AN ARTISAN
NO LONGER APPLIES. IT'S ONLY NOW THE TOP
5% OF THESE PEOPLE IN THEIR TRADE." NO
ONE HAS THAT DEFINITION. THAT'S YOUR
PROPRIETARY DEFINITION.
>> Nobody back in the day who is an
apprentice would have called themselves
artisan. People would say, "No, you're
no, you're not. You're a [__]
apprentice."
>> But that has nothing. Yeah. NOW PEOPLE
CAN JUST WANT IN SO I don't know that
that's true. I don't know that that's
true, BUT TO THE EXTENT THAT IT WOULD BE
TRUE, IT HAS NOTHING TO DO WITH the end
product. It has to do with whether or
not they are working under a person or
not.
>> THAT'S THAT'S WHY YOU WOULD BE DIFFERENT
WITH AN APPRENTICE. WHAT YOU'RE
suggesting is there are 10 table makers
in the town
>> and they all say we're artisans and YOU
SAY NO, NINE OF YOU ARE NOT. ONLY THAT
TOP 10% GUY IS THE ARTISAN. THE REST OF
YOU, THE 90%. And you'd say, THEY'D SAY,
"WHY NOT ARTISAN? It means we're
crafting with our hands. We're making
things of utility. That's artisan. AND
YOU SAY, "NO, YOU'RE WRONG. YOU ARE NOT
AN ARTISAN BECAUSE I THINK THAT GUY'S
TABLE'S BETTER THAN YOU." THERE'S
NOWHERE THAT THAT'S ever been the case.
Nor do I see a reason for changing
language that we should no longer apply
that.
>> No, that's the point, right? It's it's
the same thing. We all know kind of the
the the the
thing of 10,000 hours takes to master
something. You can't just go at hour
1,00 and say, "Well, I've mastered it."
Now, we have objective criteria in which
we determine this person is a master at
their craft. This person, these words,
>> we already HAVE A WORD. WE ALREADY HAVE
A WORD TO describe what you want artisan
to describe. And yet, still you
>> does master mean nothing?
>> No. Master means something.
>> What does it mean?
>> Master would mean that we have some sort
of criteria that this puts you an elite
in that job that you're doing.
>> Correct.
>> Okay. So why do we NEED TO CHANGE WHY DO
WE NEED TO CHANGE ARTISAN to be
synonymous with the word master?
>> So we can do it for master but we can't
do it for art.
>> BUT MASTER'S ALWAYS MEANT THAT WHY WOULD
WE CHANGE THE name
>> also used to mean that or we changed it
the same thing as women and man we've
changed it for some [__] reason.
>> We're talking specifically about the
term artisan. Your argument is we need
to change the word artisan in a way that
it's never been done to be synonymous
with master. Why? A artisan would be
somebody generally that is at a master
level in their craft.
>> BUT THAT'S YOU ADMIT THAT'S NOT THE WAY
THE WORD'S been used.
>> We can use words in any way we want.
That doesn't mean it's correct.
>> SO YOU'RE THE ONE WHO'S TALKING ABOUT
ARBITRARY changing the definition of
words.
>> No, I'm I'm you saying the case is we
use words like crazy people. And I'm
going no, we should not do that.
>> Interesting. What is A WORD OTHER THAN A
UNIVERSAL AGREEMENT to symbolize
something?
through language.
>> Yes, it's a Yes. So, IF WE'VE ALL SAID
ARTISAN, THAT MEANS PEOPLE THAT WORK
WITH THEIR HANDS and craft things like,
you know, uh people that make desk,
people that MAKE SWORDS, PEOPLE THAT'S
WHAT WE'VE AND YOU'RE LIKE, NO, NO,
ARTISANS SHOULD ONLY BE MASTERS. AND WE
SAY, BUT WE ALREADY HAVE A WORD FOR
MASTERS. MASTERS. WHY WOULD WE CHANGE
THE WORD ARTISAN TO MEAN MASTERS? AND
YOU'RE LIKE, BECAUSE THAT'S WHAT IT
SHOULD MEAN. I DON'T LIKE THE DESK MAKER
THAT'S NOT THAT GOOD CALLING HIMSELF AN
ARTISAN. BUT WHY? WHAT IS THE REASON
THAT YOU DON'T? I JUST DON'T LIKE IT. I
THINK IF THEY'RE NOT MASTERS, THEY'RE
NOT ARTISANS.
>> I hear what you're saying. Artisan would
apply to be doing some kind of niche
skill set. Then master would be this the
determination of the proficiency of that
skill set.
>> Yes.
>> Yes. Correct. I agree with you on that
point that I'm making. Yes.
>> But you are saying we can colloially
just do it. We can we can just we can
change that though colloially, couldn't
we? WE COULD, BUT WHY IS THE QUESTION?
>> That's the point that I'm saying for
art. Why did we CHANGE IT?
>> FORGET ABOUT ART FOR A SECOND. WHY ON
ARTISAN should we change it?
>> I'm I'm not making the argument that we
should change art.
>> But wait a minute, then that gets to a
fundamental problem WITH YOUR
SUGGESTION. IF artisans if the
difference between an artist and an
artisan is an artist is someone who's
doing art for aesthetic reasons and an
artisan is someone who's doing art in
PRACTICAL REASONS, RIGHT? WHY WOULD THEN
ALL OF A sudden artisan which both of
them have the same rule of art would it
mean something completely different than
artist ONLY THE TOP 5% OF ARTISTS BUT
ARTISANS it's anyone who does it
>> why would that
>> well it would be a niche thing right
>> no I think we would say
>> so artisan would apply to some kind of
niche skill set otherwise what is it we
don't say all that work with their hands
artist
>> artist is a niche skill set
>> yes
>> painter musician architecture sculptor
molder. Yes, these are artists. Nich
both again the differentiation is both
are doing art. One for utility, one for
aesthetics.
>> Okay. So a artisan to to say that they
work is art is my argument for that that
should be a higher order uh category
added to something that an artisan would
be doing,
>> right?
>> Not just a general thing that they do.
>> So now you're saying that you would
change the definition of the word
artisan.
No, I'm saying if you wouldn't change
the definition.
>> Work that artisan does the category of
art should be something that has a
higher order value to it.
>> The people you're saying art should be
the top 5% of people or the top 5% of
things that are created in that field.
>> Yes.
>> OKAY. SO THEN ONLY 5% OF PAINTINGS would
be art.
No, that that that numerically that
wouldn't make sense, right? Because it
it 5% of people doing a thing does not
attribute to 5% of the holistic stuff
that's produced. One person could
produce a 100 paintings. That doesn't
directly translate to 5%. That's
incorrect, Rob.
>> Okay. So, only 5% of the people that are
painters are creating art.
>> Yes.
>> Some of them might be more prolific than
others. It may be that only 1% of
>> some of them might do really good
drawings, but it might not be art.
>> Okay, so just to be clear, it's 5% of
painters are artist. Now, it could mean
that that means that only 1% of actual
paintings are art because it could be
that those 5% of the actual artists are
doing less work than the 95%. Or it
could be that they're doing more. So
maybe 10 to 15% of all paintings are
art. But the important qualification
you're making is only 5% of painters
should be qualified as artist. Fair.
>> I mean, I just threw out an arbitrary
number cuz you asked me for a threshold
breaker. So, I mean, me saying I'm not
holding you five 10% and elite though a
minority.
>> Well, the top the top people.
>> Yeah. So, it might be 5%
>> and we would base the top people on on
objective metrics. SO JUST TO BE CLEAR,
some number 5% 10% but a very small
amount right of painters would be
considered artists.
>> Yes.
>> Okay. Then why wouldn't it follow that
only 10% of table makers would be
considered artisans?
>> So what so they it because if they if a
person just works in a in a factory for
IKEA making tables, I would not call
that person an artisan. Do you see how
that works?
>> I agree. No one would. Working on an
assembly line doesn't make you an
artist.
>> So making a table doesn't mean [__] The
the methods used to make the table. Is
he a woodworker? How does he make that
objective categories that produces the
word artisan?
>> Well, we could say the same thing about
ARTIST WORKING IN A PRINTING gallery
doesn't make you a painter.
>> Sure. Great. We're talking about the
PEOPLE THAT ARE PAINTERS. ONLY 5 TO 10%
of them are actual artists. We're not
talking the same. So we're using
painters. Okay. So we're so now we're
taking the exact same criteria and
MAKING IT AS ANALOGOUS AS POSSIBLE to
woodworkers to a person making A TABLE.
WE'RE NOT SAYING AH BUT YOU HAVE TO
CONSIDER ASSEMBLY LINE WORKERS just like
we don't consider assembly people in the
process OF A PAINTING. WE'RE TALKING
ABOUT THE PEOPLE ACTUALLY PAINTING. Same
thing. So only 10% of the people that
are actually crafting tables are
artisans
>> depending on other objective metrics not
just based on whether they make a table
>> because an artist makes a table.
>> Forget the ASSEMBLY LINE. LET'S GO BACK
TO 1850S BEFORE THE ASSEMBLY LINE before
printing presses and [__] LIKE THAT. 10%
OF PAINTERS ARE ARTISTS, RIGHT?
the
I 10% of painters are artists. It
depends on it depends.
>> SO THERE'S A SO 10% OF TABLE makers
would be artisans, right?
>> If they if they doing a craft in a
unique way, that would probably give
them the the the category of artisan.
>> What do you mean unique? I I APPRENTICED
UNDER THIS GUY. IT'S NOT UNIQUE. I'M
DOING IT THE SAME WAY HE TAUGHT ME.
He had 20 STUDENTS. WE'RE ALL DOING IT
THE SAME WAY, so we're not artisans.
Even if it's an excellent thing.
>> Well, no. Then you would be an artisan,
but artisan doesn't translate to art,
right?
>> OF COURSE IT DOES. THEY'RE THE SAME
ROUTE. YOU'VE ALREADY ACKNOWLEDGED.
>> NO, NO, NO. Artisan and artist is not
even the same words and art and artisan
and art artist.
>> That's not true. You've conceded that
the difference is an artist is someone
who's creating art for aesthetic reasons
and an artisan someone who's creating
art for utility reasons. That's the
difference. Both are engaged in the
creation of art. You conceded that the
entire debate.
>> No, no, no, not I. I didn't say that
they both create art. If if a
woodworker, artisan woodworker is making
tables, that doesn't designate that
they're doing art because they're
working with wood.
>> No, no, no, no, no. You were quite
specific. I said the BUTTER KNIFE. YOU
SAID YES. THE BUTTER KNIFE IS ART. The
utility of it. That's what you said.
>> No. Did I say all butter knives are art?
No, but you said that it is itself art.
That it is an object that could be
considered art.
>> It could be depending on the objective
matrix, not my subjective opinion.
>> Okay. So, what are the objective
metrics?
>> What are the objective metrics that
could make a butter knife art? Forget
about historical. Oh, it was it's level
of craftsmanship.
>> So, then there is a certain level of
craftsmanship that would make a butter
knife be considered art.
>> Yes.
>> Okay. And what percentage roughly would
you guess of butter knives that are art?
because they have an elite measure of
craftsmanship.
>> I do not have a functional knowledge of
every single butter knife.
>> It would be a small minority.
>> How would I determine that?
>> It would be a smallity. A small
minority. YES.
>> SO, WOULD WE SAY THAT THE PERSON WHO
made that butter knife that you consider
art is an artisan?
>> They would probably be an artisan.
>> The people that don't THAT MAKE THE
KNIVES THAT DON'T MEET YOUR CRITERIA OF
ART, ARE THEY ARTISANS?
>> They could be. YES. WHY? IF AN ARTISAN,
IF THE DEFINITION of artisan is one who
creates art for utility and they're not
creating art, HOW COULD THEY BE AN
ARTISAN?
>> It's not necessarily that, right?
Because you could be an artisan. You
could be a you could be an artisan with
with [__] cutting hair, with tattoos,
with a lot of things. It doesn't necess
it doesn't necessarily an artisan
doesn't necessarily have to be
functional.
>> Okay, then
>> there's artisal [__] chocolates out
there. Okay. So, what's the difference
between artisan and artist?
>> Artisal would just designate some kind
of niche thing.
>> Okay. BUT PAINTINGS WOULD BE PAINTERS
WOULD BE ARTISANS THEN.
>> The Mexicans painting a home are
technically painters. They're not
artists.
>> Okay. But are they artisans?
>> No. Okay. So then again, you've given me
an example that doesn't meet the
criteria of artist or artisan. My
question TO YOU IS WHAT IS THE
DIFFERENCE between an artist and an
artisan?
>> An artisan would probably designate some
kind of niche um craft.
>> Okay. Sculpting. Artisan.
>> Yeah. I mean it would depend what
they're sculpting. So I myself I'm a
sculptor.
>> Painting. Artisan.
Not house painting but portraits.
Artisan.
>> Artisan. I would say artisan painter
would be like a dude. So the guy who
paints the pinstripes on Rolls-Royces
that old guy, he's an artisan painter.
>> Okay. What differentiates that from an
artist?
>> His skilled craft is specifically doing
a niche thing.
>> But so is a portrait painter. That's a
niche.
>> A PERSON WHO PAINTS LANDSCAPES, that's a
>> So I would well
>> a musician, that's a niche. Trent Resner
has a niche.
>> Not necessarily a niche. Define niche.
>> No. Well, that that is that is a a
favored a favored subject matter, not a
niche.
>> No, no, no. What's a favorite subject
matter?
>> What does niche mean?
>> Niche means a specific thing that you
do, right?
>> BUT SO IF I'M LIKE IF MY NICHE IS
>> I guess it would it would entail some
kind of functional Yes. I guess you're
you're you were correct in saying that
it does pertain to some kind of
functional element. YES.
>> RIGHT. SO IT IS ART for function.
>> Yeah. I mean, yeah, you could probably I
mean there are there are things that
wouldn't fall under that category. Like
I said, food,
>> but I mean in essence that has function
too. So yeah.
>> Yeah. Food's art,
>> of course.
>> Yeah. I mean that has function. Yeah.
>> So then so then if that's the
differentiation,
art is aesthetic and not necessarily
function. And artisan is people that are
doing art for function, right? And yet
it's a very low category because it
requires a masterful level that that
it's only the top percentages 5 10%
whatever 5 10 15 I'm not holding you to
the exact percent that are actually
doing art then it would apply that the
artisan who is not skilled enough to do
art is not an artisan
>> because artisan the definition is a
person who creates art for function.
Well, no. Well, see the thing is so a
artisan can create art. An artist can
create art. It but that would be based
on objective metrics, right? That we
would give to a higher proficiency at
the said thing that they're doing,
right? SO IF I SAY I AM AN ARTIST,
RIGHT, and I draw a lot,
>> do we determine Wait, do we determine
that on subjective or would you agree
that we would use some kind of objective
metric to to kind
>> My entire argument is that there will be
subjective there can be there should be
some objective level like you've
actually created a drawing, a painting,
etc. But it is also but it also includes
subjectivity,
>> right? And here's the problem, RIGHT? IF
I CALL MYSELF AN ARTIST, RIGHT, and I
make a song, am I an artist?
>> No. You made a song. You make music. Not
art necessarily.
>> Okay. It would have to achieve a certain
level on objective criteria to be in a
minority that makes it elite enough to
be considered art. Correct.
>> Yeah. So, it's it's similar to me. I I
am a commissioned artist, right? But I
wouldn't necessarily say that some of
the things I'm commissioned to make is
art.
Then you weren't commissioned as an
artist in that.
>> I was commissioned as an expert in my
field.
>> But that's not how you would that's not
how people would put the [__] uh job
search.
>> Rob, if if we get an art so I'm an
artist and let's say on on Bloodshot the
Vin Diesel movie because we're artists,
we were we were commissioned to make the
machines in the lab that make super
soldiers. I wouldn't say that that's a
piece of art. We're replicating a
machine.
>> Okay. So then you weren't an artist.
>> I was I was an artisan at my craft with
a with a skill set task to make
something.
>> But why why would you be an artisan if
it's not art?
>> Well, I I'm I'm good at replicating a
thing. That would
>> even you even you just said that you
like you slip up in your own language.
You didn't even say artisan. You said
artist. You said because I'm an artist
on this movie, I was commissioned to
make this thing and I don't consider
that art. Then you weren't an artist.
>> Well, then artisan. Cool. Then I was an
artisan.
>> BUT WHY IS artisan any different than
artist? There both [__] The only thing
that's both
>> you can do you can parallel between
these things. Right.
>> Both but both the the commonality
between both of them is the creation of
art. One for function one for
aesthetics. Other than that they both
rely on the creation of art. Correct.
>> They they they function on on a on on
artistic endeavors.
>> Right. So then a person who works with
their hand and creates tables but has
never created one that gets into the top
percentage can't call himself an
artisan. Just like a painter who may get
hired to paint portraits for a
low-budget movie if it's not considered
in the top 5 10 15% whatever he can't
call himself an artist. Even though he's
hired as an artist he's not an artist.
>> Yeah. But an art an artist can take if
I'm an artist and I take a [__] I'm not
doing art.
>> Maybe. So,
>> so merely being an artist or artisan
does not mean you're doing art.
>> But that's not the point. I I get that.
Actually, the only person that seemed to
push back against that was you who
seemed to imply until I had to go down
the chain of thought that if Trent
Resner puts out something that's [__]
because he's Trent Resner, well, it's
still art. And then you're like, well,
maybe not,
>> right? So the only person who's not
confused by that I'm not confused by
that point. The only person that seemed
to go down that rabbit hole was you.
Nonetheless, not the question before us.
>> It has nothing to do with just because
you've done art at one point is
everything you're doing art. That's not
the point. The point is if you've never
done art by your definition, which is
top five to 10% of things in that field,
can you call yourself an artist? Can you
call yourself an artisan?
you the well is the argument about
artisan an artist or the higher order
category of art.
>> Well, it would seem to follow that if we
say art is only like the five to 10%
because it's a higher category, the
people that CALL THEMSELVES ARTIST.
DON'T YOU THINK THE DEFINITION OF ARTIST
should be one who creates art?
>> It would be a person who attempts TO DO
ART.
>> NOW WAIT A MINUTE, THAT SEEMS TO be
foolish.
>> Why?
>> Why? Anybody can designate themselves as
an artist. It doesn't mean they're doing
art.
>> Okay. Am I one time I held a welding
torch and went like this real quick. Am
I a welder?
>> I ATTEMPTED TO WELD. I FAILED, BUT I
ATTEMPTED.
>> SO, you're not a welder? Because we Rob,
how do we determine if you're a welder?
Objectively or or subjectively?
>> But you're MAKING MY POINT. OBJECTIVELY,
I'M NOT A WELDER. JUST BECAUSE I QUOTE
ATTEMPTED to weld. Just like an artist.
Because you call yourself an artist or
an artisan doesn't mean you're doing
art.
>> Just Chris, you're making my point.
YOU'RE THE PERSON SAYING THE OPPOSITE.
YOU'RE SAYING AN ARTIST IS SOMEONE WHO
TRIES TO MAKE ART. THAT MEANS THAT I AM
AN ARTIST IF I DO THIS. IF I DRAW A
STICK FOR YOUR EYES, say I'm an artist
to make art. And you're like, that's
arbitrop. It's not art. IT'S NOT IN THE
5 TO 10% of actual drawings.
>> SO IT'S NOT ART. BUT YOU CAN STILL CALL
YOURSELF AN ARTIST because you tried.
THAT MAKES NO SENSE. THE DEFINITION OF
ARTIST THE DEFINITION OF ARTIST THAT HAS
to make sense is
>> is arbitrary.
>> NO, IT HAS TO BE one who does art
>> or it loses all utility.
>> People call themselves artists that
attempt to sing and make music like
rappers and you would say that doesn't
make them what they produce art. The
argument is about art that objectively
in your worldview they are not artists.
Right.
>> Artist and art are two different things.
Correct.
>> But in your worldview, what you ought it
be? WHAT OUGHT THE DEFINITION OF ARTIST
BE?
>> Is artist a different word to art?
>> Yes. Artist is a
>> artist applies to the human that can
subjectively say they give themselves
accreditation. Art I'm arguing for being
a higher higher order category. If we
accept your worldview, WE SAY CHRIS IS
RIGHT. AND THE WHOLE WORLD GOES, that's
it. THAT'S IT. ONLY THE TOP 5% NOW IS
ART. WE'RE going to have objective
metrics, BLAH BLAH BLAH. WHAT DOES
ARTIST MEAN? NOW,
>> I told you artist means somebody who's
who's claims to be an artist.
>> So, you think that your is your is the
word artist ought to be the same as the
word woman. If you claim you're an
artist, you're an artist.
That's what you want the word to be
>> according to according to the societal
norms. Yeah. Because I can't argue for
that.
>> When you say it ought to be. That's what
we're talking about.
>> No. Just because you call yourself an
artist doesn't mean you are an artist.
>> OKAY. SO, WHAT SHOULD IT MEAN TO BE an
artist?
>> I am Am I arguing for that or am I
arguing for art as a higher category?
>> I'm arguing IF WE CHANGE THE DEFINITION
OF A WORD, RIGHT? And there are forms of
the word that go IT' BE LIKE THIS. IF I
IF I SAY THE WORD bake should mean
something hyper specific. IT'S ONLY IF
YOU'RE DEALING WITH apples and you're
putting them in the oven. THAT'S THE
ONLY THING OF BAKE. THEN THE OTHER FORMS
of that word like BAKED THE PAST TENSE
OF THAT. I CAN'T SAY YEAH BUT THE PAST
TENSE IT COULD GO BACK TO MEANING
ANYTHING. YOU WOULD SAY WHAT SENSE DOES
THAT MAKE? If the present tense is has
to be apples IN AN OVEN, WHY WOULD THE
PAST TENSE BE ALLOWED TO BE ANYTHING?
AND WHY WOULD BAKER BE ALLOWED TO BE
ANYTHING AND NOT HAVE TO DO WITH THE
SPECIFIC of what we've CHANGED THE WORD
BAKE to mean? Right? The same with
artist. I DON'T KNOW WHY YOU'RE HUNG UP
ON THIS POINT. IF art is going to only
mean the top 5 to 10% of people or of of
works in that field, then artists would
have to be the people who do art. I
don't know what's the difficulty here.
If somebody's if somebody's
work gets the higher order category of
art, it would require them to be an
artist or an artisan.
>> Okay. Now, one of the reasons I'm saying
that is a negative reason to prefer this
change of definition is what we
colloally understand when people say I'm
an artist, I'm an artisan, would have to
be completely thrown out the window.
90 roughly 90% of the people that call
themselves artisan or artisan would be
like no you're not.
Even if that's your field, EVEN IF YOUR
JOB'S LIKE, I LITERALLY get paid to make
tables. I just sit there all day and I
craft tables. Nope, you're not an
artist. And they're not in the 10% of
tables. I'm an artist. I literally draw
for games that people make.
>> I didn't say what you're saying. You're
You're strawmaning me right now. I
didn't say
>> it's not a straw man. How is that any
different?
>> I didn't say I said anybody can call
themselves an artist or an artisan. It
doesn't mean they're doing art.
>> But they're wrong is what you're saying.
I'm saying yes,
they could be wrong. Yes,
>> it's not a matter of could be. We're
talking about YOUR WORLDVIEW OF WHAT IT
ought to be,
>> Rob. People can call themselves a woman
when they're a man.
>> And they I can say that they're wrong,
but they can call themselves whatever
the [__] they want to call themselves.
>> That's true. But that's not the argument
we're having here. We're not having
>> is all socially constructed. People
could say people could say that
>> are we talking about is anyone
>> is the is the argument about people or a
thing that's being produced
>> let me ask you that okay I will counter
your proposition your your prompt here I
will counter it in the same way you just
push back against SAYS YEAH BUT PEOPLE
COULD CALL art whatever they want
>> that's your argument
>> NO THAT THAT'S THE ANSWER TO YOUR
ARGUMENT PEOPLE COULD CALL IT WHATEVER
THEY WANT AND YOU'D SAY YEAH BUT THAT'S
BAD THAT'S NOT A GOOD THING AND HERE'S
WHY I'M SAYING OKAY UNDER YOUR WORLDVIEW
VIEW. If we change art to just mean the
top five to 10%. THEN WE HAVE ALL THESE
PEOPLE THAT SAY I'M AN ARTIST. I'M AN
ARTISAN THAT ALL HAVE TO DO WITH AND AND
I FINALLY IT'S LIKE you're asking me for
an order.
>> Let me finish like pulling teeth. I get
you to admit yes those people would only
be artists if they have created art
which art would be the top 5 to 10%. I'm
like see this is another reason to not
change the definition because there is
utility when someone says right now well
what's YOUR CAREER? I'M AN ARTIST. We
have an understanding of what that
means. I'M AN ARTISAN. WE HAVE AN
UNDERSTANDING of what that means.
Historically, we have an understanding
of what THAT MEANS. AND NOW TO BE LIKE,
NOPE, IT TURNS OUT 90% ROUGHLY OF the
people that claim to be artists or
artisan are wrong because we have
changed the definition of art to only be
the top 5 to 10%. I don't know what the
UTILITY OF THAT IS. INSTEAD, WE COULD
JUST SAY THIS, YOU'RE A BAD ARTIST.
YOU'RE BAD. YOU'RE A BAD ARTISAN. And we
have terms for the top. You were top
tier. YOU'RE A MASTER ARTIST. YOU'RE an
award-winning artist. You're an
excellent artist. WE ALREADY HAVE
ADJECTIVES TO EXPLAIN THE DEGREE. I
DON'T UNDERSTAND the meaning, the change
of the word art as you want it to be
when it has all these downstream
effects, changes on language. I don't
see the utility.
>> Yeah, we Well, yeah, we we have to add
extra words to it because we've diluted
the the the original meaning of the
word.
>> I don't think so. I don't think that the
original meaning was only the top. I
don't think that that you had like 90%
of Greek sculptors people saying nope
that's not art.
>> Okay. So if we if if we say something is
bad art would we be making a subjective
determination or objective determination
whether something is bad or good art?
>> Combination of both. People would use it
differently. You could easily say here's
objectively why this is bad.
>> Yeah. And that's what I'm holding to. So
I just say instead of going um you did
not make a plate, I just go that is a
cup.
>> No, that's different, right? WE STILL
SAY WE there's an understanding what we
mean by the word art. We just say
whether or not it's good or bad. It'd be
like this. It'd be like let's say
>> so there is an understanding of what is
art.
>> Yeah, we have an understanding
basically. We have definitions that we
could point to. They're just as clear as
your definition, which there are
objective metrics that only the top five
to 10%. But the metrics itself, the
objective metrics are difficult to
explain exactly what they are and
they're ever expanding.
>> It depends on what, right? It's not ever
expanding. It it depends on what because
we've jumped through multiple categories
of art itself, right?
>> Let's say that. Let's say this, right?
There is a limit to them. But it's so
expansive that even you can't come up
who's thought about this with what each
of those would be in each category of
art.
>> Well, I did I I keep giving them to you
and then you go
>> that's not true. You you give them AND
THEN I POINT OUT SOMETHING ELSE AND
YOU'RE LIKE, OH YEAH, LET ME ADD TO
THAT.
>> WELL, is
>> for example, you're like
>> there's not one way to to judge like we
can't judge. We do we judge how
efficient a plane is on one metric. how
efficient the the airplane.
>> Yeah.
>> No, there's a category of thing like for
example multiple categories. If it's
super comfortable but it flies into the
[__] mountain or if it's flies really
well but it can't land,
>> we would say
things we got
>> we would say looking at the entire
functioning of the plane. Sure.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah. Arts works the same. There's a
couple of metrics.
>> No, no, no. It's not just a couple. It's
it's a whole bunch. And you who's
thought it through can't even give me
all the metrics.
>> For example, when you were like tone,
rhythm, you went through all this stuff.
I said, "Okay."
>> Yeah. So, I provided matrix.
>> Okay. But not comprehensive. Not a
comprehensive list.
>> Okay. But I gave you matrix, but you
said I didn't give you matrix.
>> NO, I SAID YOU WEREN'T ABLE TO. IT'S an
everexpanding list of objective metrics.
That's what I said. And you were like,
well, it's not.
>> WELL, OKAY. I'M ACKNOWLEDGING IT
WOULDN'T BE ENDLESS, but it's so
expansive that even you that thought
about it can't give us a comprehensive
list.
>> Okay, but but what what would be a
comprehensive list? How many how many
would be comprehensive?
>> You tell me. You're the person who's
saying that it's objective. Objective
means that there's a right answer.
>> I'm saying we can use objective metrics
to determine whether something is
something. You're saying, well, we
should we should we should account for
subjective metrics.
>> Is it if it is object like math is
objective, right?
Yeah, it's
>> it's objective, right? Okay, we can see
THERE ARE CLEAR DEFINED comprehensive
rules. Here's why 2 plus 2 IS FOUR. IT'S
COMPREHENSIVE. We're not leaving
anything out. When you're like, HERE ARE
THE SEVEN CATEGORIES FOR objectively
when a song is our tone, rhythm, beat,
you know, whatever. You go through them.
And I'm like, okay, but what about one
that's NOT THAT GREAT, BUT IT HAS THIS
HISTORICAL IMPORTANCE. IT WAS A KID THAT
SANG THE national anthem right after
9/11,
>> and it was emotional to people. AND
YOU'RE LIKE, "OH, OKAY. YEAH, YEAH,
THAT, TOO." HISTORICAL IMPORTANCE. WELL,
because of an objective metric, not
because it of the emotions that was
given to us.
>> It doesn't matter. What I'm telling you
is now you've added another objective
metric that YOU DIDN'T INITIALLY SAY.
OKAY, let's add that one.
>> Okay. And we can get,
okay, there's another ONE I DIDN'T THINK
OF. Let's add that. AND WHAT I'M SAYING
IS THERE BECOMES SO MANY METRICS that
even if we could theoretically say each
of these individual metrics are
objective, WAS IT HISTORICALLY
SIGNIFICANT? I THINK THAT THAT'S
SUBJECTIVE. Determining whether or not
something meets a threshold OF
HISTORICAL SIGNIFICANCE I FIND TO BE
SUBJECTIVE. BUT LET'S SAY FOR THE SAKE
OF ARGUMENT we say there's objective
ways to measure that. The problem is
your interpretation includes so many
variables that IT WILL BE SUBJECTIVE IN
HOW YOU UTILIZE THE OBJECTIVE METRICS TO
DETER FOR EXAMPLE IF I SAID WHAT IS A
GOOD plane and you acknowledge there's a
bunch of metrics right? Did it
successfully complete its mission? Did
it go at a speed? Was it affordable?
Were the seats comfortable? Right?
>> You might say, "Well, I put more value
on the comfortability of the seats." AND
I MIGHT SAY, "WELL, I PUT MORE VALUE ON
HOW AFFORDABLE it was to create." Who's
right?
>> Notice how nothing you mentioned there
is is subjective. It's all objective.
Funny how
>> nonetheless, the determination of which
of those is more value in determining
whether IT'S GOOD IS SUBJECTIVE. OH,
well it seems every time we determining
things, it seems to be that we appeal to
objective criteria, which is my whole
argument. We
>> And my whole argument is the way in
which you apply to objective criteria,
not all of which I agree are objective,
is subjectively.
You may think tone is more important
than rhythm. You may think historical
significance is more important,
>> subjective manners
>> than pitch.
>> I'm not giving subjective criteria to
judge things. I'm saying you are saying
people can make subject subjective
determinations. No [__] People do do
that. But none of which the criteria I
gave is subjective. They're all
objective, RIGHT?
>> IT DOES NOT MATTER.
>> WELL, that's Yeah. Well, that's what
you're arguing. Say it should hold
weight because if if objective things do
not hold weight, then we can just drift
into this generating say school of
subjectivity.
Who ever once said in this entire debate
objective things shouldn't hold weight?
Who ever said that?
>> If if if it's not objective things, you
you are on the side of subjective things
hold weight.
>> That's not true. I've never said that
I'm exclusively. IN FACT, I ACKNOWLEDGED
I said
I said subjectivity will always play a
role. Your prompt was that it will
always
>> subjectivity and emotions hold weight
when we talk about objective things. It
>> No.
What's that HAVE ANYTHING TO DO? WHAT
DOES THAT QUESTION HAVE anything to do
with what we talked about?
Dude,
>> I could say THE SAME THING. DOES SKIN
COLOR HAVE ANYTHING TO DO WITH whether
or not you're tall?
>> Well, that's just arbitrary WHAT YOU'RE
SAYING.
>> THAT'S WHAT YOU'RE DOING. YOU'RE SAYING
AN ARBITRARY FACT THAT HAS NOTHING TO
DO. WE'RE TALKING ABOUT WHAT THE
DEFINITION OF THE WORD ART SHOULD BE.
AND YOU'RE LIKE, WELL, WE COULD USE
OBJECTIVE METRICS. And I'm like, sure,
there could also be some subjective
ones. In fact, I think some of the ones
you're saying are partially subjective.
BUT THE REAL point is in how WE APPLY
HOW MUCH OF THOSE OBJECT LIKE LET'S SAY
ALL OF THESE THINGS ARE A SCALE of 0 TO
100. HERE IS PERFECT PITCH, RIGHT? WE
COULD SOMEHOW SAY THIS IS IT. THIS IS
RIGHT HERE. Here's perfect pitch.
>> Right?
>> Do we know that objectively or
subjectively?
>> I don't know.
>> Perfect pitch is determined subjectively
and not objectively. So
>> perfect pitch is determined
subjectively.
I'm sorry. Your argument is it's
>> Your argument is it's true. It's
objective. Okay. So, let's say that's
true. Perfect pitch is objective. So,
LET'S SAY THAT'S TRUE. AND LET'S SAY
WE'RE LIKE DOING LIKE A VIDEO GAME.
WE'RE JUDGING THINGS ON A scale of like
0 to 100, right? So, let's say, okay,
there's perfect pitch, there's perfect
rhythm, THERE'S PERFECT TIMBER, RIGHT?
And and and there's historical
importance, IT'S CULTURAL IMPORTANCE. WE
GOT ALL THESE METRICS LIKE 10 OBJECTIVE
METRICS AND IT'S LIKE OKAY this song ON
PITCH IS A SEVEN A 70 BUT ON TAMBBER
IT'S AN 83
and then on rhythm it's an 82. Is this
art? WHAT'S THE TOTAL NUMBER? IS tambber
more important than pitch? Is it more
important than rhythm? Is it more
important THAN HISTORICAL CONTEXT? HOW
DO WE EVALUATE THESE NUMBERS TO
DETERMINE OBJECTIVELY WHETHER or not
this IS ART? AND THE PROBLEM IS YOU'RE
GOING TO BE LIKE, "WELL, I HAVE MY
INTERPRETATION OF WHAT'S more important.
I think rhythm's more important than
tone. I think it's MORE IMPORTANT THAN
HISTORICAL." RIGHT? THAT'S SUBJECTIVE.
YOU DON'T HAVE A REASON FOR THAT. That's
just your preference.
Furthermore, what's your PREFERENCE ON
WHAT THE NUMBERS NEED TO ADD UP TO WHERE
YOU SAY, "OKAY, IF IT HAD FIVE MORE
POINTS IN PITCH, I'D HAVE GAVE IT ART,
BUT IT DIDN'T." THAT threshold once more
is going to BE SUBJECTIVE. WHICH IS WHY
I SAY IT'S NOT IN THE REALM OF exclusive
objectivity. That's why you can't
literally put something to paper AND SAY
HERE IT IS. YOU PUT IT'S LIKE A LIKE a
function in math. Here you take the
variables, you put them in the function.
There's your answer. We take the
objective criteria for when a song is
art. We put this song right here's
[__] Brad Bunny. Put it IN THERE.
NOPE. NOT ART. That doesn't exist.
YOU'RE LIKE, THERE ARE OBJECTIVE METRICS
WE COULD USE TO TRY TO DETERMINE whether
or not Bad Bunny songs are Fair enough.
I agree. But eventually, it's going to
come down to a subjective interpretation
of those objective metrics.
>> No, it comes down to the objective
metrics and then where we place a
threshold breaker. So now we're arguing
over where's the threshold breaker. Not
whether it's we can determine it
subjectively or subjective carries
weight. We are you are just saying now
that yeah objective objectivity matters.
I just I just want you to give me a
threshold breaker. That's your
>> OKAY. IF IT'S OBJECTIVE, WHAT'S MORE
IMPORTANT? RHYTHM OR PITCH?
>> And just a quick time check before you
answer that. Chris, uh we're we're at
another hour in. Just wanted to make
sure with you guys, are you guys both
both good to go still or do you want to
wrap up? I'm still gonna be his I wanted
to get to one more topic on this, but it
is up to him.
>> Yeah,
>> Rob, I I'll sit in the ring with you
till you
>> Okay. All right. All right. No problem.
All right. I'll remind you guys again
when another hour passes.
>> Let it roll. Let it roll.
>> What's more important, rhythm or pitch
in determining art?
>> Rhythm.
>> Explain why.
>> Okay. So, rhythm. Rhythm is important
because it it rhythm gives you the
cohesion of of of of the song, right?
Rhythm rhythm gives us the cohesion of
the song, how it plays out.
>> The pitch just designates one thing in
in in it. So the the singer's pitch. So
Bob Dylan sounds like a [__] drunk
when he sings,
>> right? But the rhythm of the song will
ultimately be more important.
>> Okay. How about tambber pitch?
Um, that that would probably be pitch.
>> Okay. What about let's go to painting.
Color theory or line structure?
>> Line structure.
>> Okay. What I'm going to tell you is
>> do you know why line structure? Do you
want the objective reasoning for line
structure? Sure. Line structure defines
the object. Color just just just makes
it fancy. So a drawing is purely line.
The the it's devoid of color. So yes,
they all object the matrix for these
things. Dude,
>> I disagree. I think that I could sit
down and talk to other experts that
would say I here's why I disagree with
Chris on this and all. And furthermore,
even if we would all accept that the
exact metrics that you're giving here
are in that order, there would be a
surprising
giving you objective objective objective
objective. No, you're giving high order
lower order argument for why not [__]
reasons. You're giving me reasons for
your opinion. objective or subjective.
>> They're subjective.
>> How are they subjective?
>> If you said to me, IF YOU SAID, "WHO'S
THE BEST QUARTERBACK in history?" and I
said, "Tom Brady, because he has the
most Super Bowls. Isn't that objective?"
And you're like, "Yes, it's objectively
true, but it's subjective. That that's
the most IMPORTANT THING." AND I MIGHT
SAY, "WELL, HERE'S WHY IT'S THE MOST
IMPORTANT." BECAUSE WHEN EVALUATING
QUARTERBACKS, at the end of the day,
alls we're concerned with is who wins
the big game. And you're like, "YEAH,
BUT HOW ABOUT I GO WITH WIN PERCENTAGE?
WHAT IF I SAY THIS QUARTERBACK THAT WON
THE MOST TEAMS? AFTER ALL, being a good
quarterback, that has to do with your
individual talents and your team winning
the Super Bowl, maybe it was BECAUSE YOU
HAD A BETTER COACH OR YOU HAD BETTER
PLAYERS AROUND YOUR TEAM. YES, BUT ISN'T
the amount OF PEOPLE THE AMOUNT OF SUPER
Bowls objective? Yes, that is objective.
He won whatever it was, seven Super
Bowls. But your interpretation of that
being the most important metric is
subjective.
For example, I might say, WELL, HERE'S
THE THING. HERE'S WHY COLOR THEORY, in
my opinion, is more important to
determining art than line structure.
Maybe it's true that line structure is
more important IN A DRAWING, BUT
EVERYBODY FIGURES OUT LINE STRUCTURE.
It's easy peasy. COLOR THEORY IS VERY
DIFFICULT FOR MOST PEOPLE TO GET. SO
THEREFORE, SEEING AS HOW ART IN MY
DEFINITION IS ONLY LIKE THE TOP 5% AND
SO FEW PEOPLE COULD GET COLOR theory and
almost everyone gets a sufficient level
of line structure, I think color theory
IS MORE IMPORTANT. ISN'T THAT OBJECTIVE?
DIDN'T I JUST GIVE YOU AN OBJECTIVE
REASON?
>> NO, you didn't. No, you didn't. And you
know, I can objectively analyze that.
>> Okay, go for it.
>> We have drawings, Rob. Drawings do not
require color. Color is not required.
>> Is it required for a drawing?
>> Is color required for a drawing?
>> We're talking about a painting.
>> Is color required for a painting?
>> Is line structure?
>> I can paint with one color.
>> Yes. because that defines what is being
drawn.
>> That's not true. There's often things
that go against the what we consider
acceptable line structure. And yet
>> even paintings without color still have
color theory.
>> Oh, acceptable line. What is that? That
just sounds like subjective [__]
that I know we do. It doesn't make it.
>> Is there is there is there any paintings
that are considered art that have
objectively bad line structure?
Objectively
bad line structure. No,
>> I disagree.
>> I mean, you can disagree, but can you
make an argument?
>> Sure. There are paintings that people
could say are profound paintings that
don't have line structure that you would
normally associate with being important
or being good.
>> Cool. People can say that. That that
doesn't mean anything to me.
>> Poalism. Does it have good line
structure?
>> Depends. What's what's an example of
that? like Monae.
>> Yes, I would say that it does because it
defines
>> even if he's not using lines.
>> It it defines the structure of the
things in it, right? So, a line is just
a designation of where something is and
where something is not, right?
>> Okay. But color is just the same thing.
We could use the same metric. Everything
has color theory then. Even black and
whites. You don't think that there's
different shading, there's different
colors. That doesn't apply to color
theory. Well, color theory does not
apply. Yes, there is a color or there is
a color to the material being.
>> Of course, there's theory on
>> color theory doesn't really apply to
that.
>> I disagree. Color theory would be the
colors that we use, the shading, all of
those things. That would all apply to
color theory. Correct.
>> Well, that Well, that would be lighting,
right?
>> Well, I don't that's not necessarily
color theory. That would be light.
>> Okay. I watch this show I watch this
show called Inkmaster, right? where they
do tattoos, right? Lighting would be
like you're tattooing an Indian lady's
face and the sun's up here. So, the
lighting is like coming on the face,
right? The the color theory would be
even if it's black and white, did you do
the shading properly? That's the color
theory portion of it. There's color
theory on black and white tattoos.
>> No, no, no. Color color color theory
would be would be how colors work
together, right? But with black and
gray, what what you're what you're doing
is is you're just the the the it's the
negative and the positive, right? You're
working with um empty space versus full
space. That that would not necessarily
designate color. Color theory would be
how colors complement each other.
>> LET'S SAY HYPOTHETICALLY YOU'RE RIGHT.
THEN I WOULD SAY WHAT'S MORE IMPORTANT,
LINE THEORY OR THE APPLICATIONS OF
shadings or colors?
So you you you couldn't have something
that is just shades. It would have to
have defined lines. Otherwise, it would
be a [__] blob.
>> It's not necessarily
>> lines. But but again,
>> again, how is something defined that
doesn't have lines?
>> Okay. And if it doesn't have color
that's visible, how could it be defined?
>> If you literally can't see because I'm
going to have invisible color, there's
nothing. That's the absence of something
if it has no color. And here's a blue
pen. So if I draw a line with the black
pen.
>> Whoa. That's African-American pen.
>> If I draw a line with the black pen,
right? That's color, right?
>> A black pen. Yes, it is a color.
>> So your argument is you can't have any
form of painting without lines. I say
you can't have it without any form of
color either.
For example, if the canvas is white and
I take this, right? And I draw a line.
Here's here's my canvas. And I draw a
line with the back of my pen without
color. Art.
>> Is there is there is there imprint on
that piece of paper?
>> Sure.
>> So there's a line without color. You
just proved my point. Bad example, Rob.
Bad example, Rob.
>> The color itself. The color itself is
>> Do you know what a lo print is? It's a
carving within a piece of wood. No
color. That could be considered a
painting. You can carve out a [__]
line.
Becomes That's not true.
>> It's literally lo print.
>> Okay. So, okay. So, let's say if that's
true, if that's true, and we were going
to take that, right, that lino print,
right, and we were going to zoom in as
much as possible in order to create a
pixel rendition of this. Would there be
different colors in that lino print?
>> Yes. things in THE WORLD CONTAIN.
>> OH, SO IN OTHER WORDS, even this this
impression here would result in
different COLORS BECAUSE THE MERE FACT
OF MAKING impressions change the colors
even if almost in
>> Does it change the color or does it
change how the light hits it?
>> It doesn't matter. I'm talking
all-encompassing.
>> It does. It just said remember what I
said. Fine. Let's concede that color
theory also HAS TO DO WITH LIGHTING.
REMEMBER WHAT I SAID of light? You you
are making an argument that absence of
light equals color. I'm making the
argument that color and color theory and
lighting the application of colors and
lightings and things that make it
visible is that more important than line
structure and you're like line structure
is more important because WITHOUT LINES
YOU CAN'T have anything. AND I SAID YEAH
BUT YOU COULD SAY THE SAME THING ABOUT
color theory and lighting etc. Without
any differentiation you just have blank
canvas.
>> No color is not more important than
lines. That's what I'm displaying to
you.
>> COLOR LIGHTING AS A COHESIVE COLLECTIVE.
IF YOU DON'T HAVE ANY OF THAT CHANGE, if
there's no change IN COLOR, NO CHANGE IN
LIGHTING, ETC. Is that more important
than line theory? CAN YOU HAVE A
painting without a changing in lighting
or color?
>> Yes, it's you can have an painting
without a change. You can lighting is
not color. I display this to you.
>> Okay, THAT'S AN ABSENCE OF
>> ONCE MORE. WHAT I'M SAYING IS I WILL
CONCEDE. I'M TALKING ABOUT THESE THINGS
COHESIVELY. The application without
lines.
>> Colors without lines has no
distinguishable nature of something.
>> Lines has no or lighting has no
distinguishable nature.
>> Show me a world in which light does not
exist.
>> Show me a world which lines do not
>> I'm making the argument for lines that
should not be.
>> What the [__] are you talking about?
What's this contributing? Does this have
to do with anything?
>> I'm telling you that. Do do you know do
do you know what? Even even do you know
what? We'll take it even further if
because you don't want to get the point.
Can I be blind and feel a [__]
painting?
>> Yeah.
>> Oh,
so color is not required. Thank you.
>> For [__] sakes, Rob. Come on.
>> The point of the painting is the
visualization of it.
It's not paintings. Also, texture is
important with paintings. There's other
elements to it. That's one of the things
that defines painting sometimes is that
we can see the textures and the brush
strokes of it. A blind person could feel
the [__] painting, but only if
there's lines.
>> So, just to be clear,
>> color is not required.
>> Can I be blind and without a nervous
system and feel? I can't feel, but I
could hear. I could taste.
>> Yeah, but now you're just being
ridiculous. Like I'm not being the point
that lines are more important than
color. You're being difficult right now.
>> The point is it's not just color, it's
color and shading,
>> right? The line, the mere fact that the
line would be put on would perceptively
change the color, lighting, shading,
etc. Nonetheless, it's still arbitrary.
For example, let's say that we say one
of the things that's necessary for art
is to have the tools to CREATE ART, LIKE
A PAINTBRUSH,
RIGHT? That's an IMPORTANT THING TO
UTILIZE A tool that you could create art
with. If you're doing a painting, you
need paint. Correct.
>> Yes.
>> So, we'd say that's most important,
>> right? Without paint, there is no
painting. Correct.
>> No, there can be a I I showed to you.
You can do a painting by carving, right?
>> That's not a painting.
>> That's carving.
>> How would that be a painting?
>> Well, I mean, yes. Yes. Oh. Oh, yeah.
You can do a drawing. Yes. Painting.
Painting. Yes. painting would require
paint.
>> So we're doing painting. So then the
number one most important thing more
than line structure, more than color
theory is paint. Access to paint.
>> Yes. Well, it's in the name.
>> But you understand the utility of that
statement is worthless. If almost anyone
who wants to be a painter gets access to
paint, THEN WE'D SAY, "EH, YEAH. OKAY, I
guess it's a necessary thing."
>> Yeah. But yeah, but saying a painting
needs paint is not designated to your
argument of color is more important than
lines. You know what I'm saying? It said
when I said that my argument could be
what if almost everyone could do line
structure and it was easy to learn but
good color theory is almost impossible.
If we're saying that art has to be like
a top tier in that sense even if a line
hypothetically would be more necessary
for a painting to exist than
hypothetically lighting or color lines.
>> Okay. But what I'm color theory
>> I mean I don't know what to say. I I
don't I don't know I DON'T KNOW WHAT TO
SAY. THE POINT THAT I'M TRYING TO MAKE
IS THIS. Just because something is more
necessary in order for something to
exist doesn't mean that there needs to
be more expertise in that in order for
it to be considered art. Right? That I
IT THIS IS ON ITS FACE.
>> BUT BUT just listen on color theory,
right? The reason we can perceive a
rainbow as not just one color is because
there's a distinction in the lines
between the color. When colors overlap,
they create lines where one stops and
the other one doesn't. Lines give shape.
Color without lines
is pointless. It displays nothing.
Lining is what designates something.
>> The point is when we're talking about
when we're talking about theory online,
WHAT YOU'RE SO THEN THIS IS THIS IS LINE
theory then. This is good line theory,
right?
>> THERE YOU GO. LINE THEORY. I DID GET IT.
I DID LINES. THAT'S IMPORTANT. YOU WOULD
SAY NO. OF COURSE, WHAT WE'RE TALKING
ABOUT WITH LIE theory is, are you using
it in an application that makes it in
the top 5 TO 10%. RIGHT?
>> WHEN I'M SAYING, WELL, HYPOTHETICALLY,
WHEN WE'RE TRYING TO EVALUATE, WHEN
LOOKING AT WHETHER OR NOT SOMETHING'S
ART, WHAT IS MORE IMPORTANT? SAYING AT
THE MOST REDUCTIVE LEVEL POSSIBLE, A
LINE IS NECESSARY AS THE PRECURSOR FOR
any sort of IMAGE TO COME ACROSS.
THEREFORE, LINES ARE MORE IMPORTANT.
THAT'S NOT THE QUESTION. ANY MORE THAN
ME THAN RHETORIC? AH, BUT NO. WHEN IT
COMES TO PAINTING, PAINTING IS more
important than lines BECAUSE YOU CAN'T
EVEN CONTEMPLATE the line without paint.
PAINT IS NECESSARY FOR PAINTING. YOU'D
SAY, "SURE, BUT WE'RE TALKING ABOUT THE
CHARACTERISTICS, we would determine
whether or not something is art." AND IF
EVERYONE IS CAPABLE OF MAKING LINES,
RIGHT? THAT DOESN'T DIFFERENTIATE. IF
ONLY THE TOP 5% OF painters are capable
of having some sort of art or color
theory THAT WE'RE LIKE, "AH, YES, THIS
IS WHAT MAKES IT TOP TIER." BUT 90% OF
ARTISTS ARE CAPABLE OF HAVING LINE
THEORY THAT LEADS THERE. THEN WE WOULD
SAY THE KEY FACTOR THAT WE'RE LOOKING TO
differentiate that would BE MORE
IMPORTANT. IS THE COLOR THEORY MORE
CORRECT? THE IDEA THAT IT'S LIKE NO,
IT'S ALWAYS GOING TO BE LINES BECAUSE
LINES ARE NECESSARY FOR COLOR. THEN I
SAID THEN IT'S ALWAYS PAINT. THE NUMBER
ONE IMPORTANT THING IS PAINT. YES, BUT
ROB, 100% OF PAINTERS COULD GET ACCESS
TO PAINT. NONETHELESS, MOST IMPORTANT
thing
>> you understand that the paint itself is
not a part of is not a a category of the
art. It's the medium that is used. This
is where you're confused getting
confused. Saying paint is required to
make a painting is ridiculous. Yes,
obviously. But now can a painting be
done without color? I've displayed to
you yes that it can. It cannot exist
without lines though. The same way it
can't exist without paint. But paint and
lines paint is not a technique. It is
physically the medium that is used.
>> Is Jackson Pollock
>> is Jackson Pollock use lines?
>> Is there is there a line at which
there's a differentiation between the
colors?
>> So then you would say always when I look
uh when I
>> there can't be a difference in colors if
there's no line where the one stops and
the other one ends.
>> So here's what I'm looking at. When I
look, granted I'm using sort of AI.
Absolutely. Paintings can and do exist
without lines. Examples: Leonardo da
Vinci matched Smufatu in the manner of
smoke, a technique that deliberately
avoids lines and borders. In the Mona
Lisa, edges are so softly blended that
forms seem to emerge from the mist
rather than being outlined.
Impressionist Monae, Renoir, etc. And
many pro-impressionists painted with
loose brush strokes and pure color
relationships. NO DRAWN OUTLINES
WHATSOEVER. ABSTRACT AND colorfield
painters such as MARK ROTHKCO, MANY
WORKS by Helen Frankfiller or even some
by Barnett Newman pieces consist purely
of color areas WITH NO LINES WHATSOEVER.
NOW, YOUR ARGUMENT IS GOING TO BE BUT
ANYTIME THERE IS ONE COLOR TO ANOTHER,
EVEN IF IT'S LITERALLY JUST I THROW A
PAINT BUCKET ON THAT'S RED, I THROW A
PAINT THAT'S YELLOW. YOU'RE LIKE STILL
LINES THERE BECAUSE THE MERE
DIFFERENTIATION INVOLVES SOME LINE. BUT
THAT'S NOT WHAT'S TALKED ABOUT WHEN
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT LINE THEORY.
>> YES. WELL, we were saying whe whether
lines or color is what's important. And
I said that lines specifically define
these things.
>> And yet we could see when it comes to
experts that you would agree like Da
Vinci that often times he shared what
was considered HARDLINE THEORY AND
FAVORED A MORE MISTLIKE ATMOSPHERE THAT
DIFFERENTIATED MORE WITH COLOR than with
hard lines.
>> Well, but like I said, there would still
be a point at which the two colors are
are distinguished differently. So they
would
>> define a line a line shaping.
>> What do you mean?
>> What define a line?
>> These experts seem to disagree. THEY'RE
LIKE NO NO THAT THE IDEA OF LINES TO
THEM WASN'T IMPORTANT. IF YOU'RE JUST
LIKE A LINE IS ANYTIME THERE'S A VISUAL
DIFFERENTIATION between one THING TO
ANOTHER. THAT'S WHAT YOU'RE DEFINING
LINE AS.
>> DUDE, we can like something like line we
can we can we can make arbitrary. I can
also be ridiculous and go, "Can you CAN
YOU SEE A PAINTING without
>> Rob? Rob." No, no, no. Do you want me to
be ridiculous? Can you witness or even
look at a painting without a line of
sight? There you go. What now?
>> You're the one being ridiculous. You've
gotten so ridiculous that you're like,
"Clearly lines are more important
because if you're blind, you could feel
a line."
>> Yes, you can. But can you not?
>> BUT THAT'S RIDICULOUS. WE SEE THE
RIDICULOUS NATURE WHEN I'M TALKING ABOUT
IF I TALK. What's more important? Color
or lines? machine right might I may
speak to Da Vinci if I could talk to him
and he might say CHRIS IS A [__] rube
what's he talking about he acknowledges
that I'm A MASTER BUT ALMOST EVERY ONE
OF MY PAINTINGS I THOUGHT THAT HAVING
definitive lines and the theory of line
structure was far less important THAN
THE EMOTION I WAS EVOKING THROUGH A
MASTERFUL CHANGE OF COLORS IN FACT I
PURPOSELY USED SORT OF a slight fade out
and a smoky feel in order and ex as
opposed to what was considered
CONVENTIONAL LINE THEORY THE colors and
the change in color and color THEORY OR
WHAT EVOKED the traditional things that
line theory would traditionally evoke.
Chris is full of [__]
>> Rob. Rob, I'm Yeah, but we can also have
paintings without color. I've displayed
the same things. So then you're right.
So then you would say, Da Vinci, YOU'RE
WRONG. ISN'T IT TRUE THAT YOU COULD have
a painting without color?
>> That's what you would tell me. You're
doing a straw man right now. You're
doing a straw man right now. I never
come along and ah Chris me who's never
painted a picture. Actually, I'm better
than you. The original argument to bring
it back.
>> The original argument was a hierarchy of
color versus lines,
>> right? And your argument YOUR ARGUMENT
IS NONSENSICAL THAT YOU DETERMINED that
any any gradient color is BY DEFINITION
A LINE. THEREFORE, LINE THEORY IS MORE
IMPORTANT than color theory is
nonsensical.
>> I've displayed to you that paintings can
be done without
irrelevant. It is irrelevant to
determining which theory is more
important to the decide what's doing
art.
>> If one can be done without the other
one, then is
>> untrue. That doesn't mean RIGHT. BECAUSE
WHEN YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT ART, it hasn't
have the ability to physically do it
right. It has to do the ability to do it
to make it in the top percentile.
>> No. Well, we're just engaging in fabry
right now. That's what the point is.
>> We're not. You're You're literally
You're making a point, right? like
you're you're making a point that what
I'm trying to show is you're saying
something that's [__] AND THAT
YOU'RE LIKE OBJECTIVELY IT'S TRUE. EVERY
SINGLE MASTER ARTIST EVER WOULD SAY LINE
THEORY MORE IMPORTANT THAN COLOR THEORY.
EVERYONE IT'S OBJECTIVELY TRUE. THERE'S
NO
>> because you would start with lines and
not with color. Anybody that studied art
would understand this.
>> That's not true. Leonardo da Vinci.
>> What about Leonardo da Vinci? You just
you just
>> start with lines. He did not go, "Okay,
Mona Lisa, a line here, a line here, a
line here, a line here." That's not what
he did. He said, "Color, smoke, no
lines. I'm intentionally sherking
lines." And you're like, "AH, YES, BUT I
DEFINE LINE AS THE SLOW GRADATION OF
CHANGE OF COLORS ITSELF MAKES
PERCEPTIBLE BORDERS, WHICH I WILL DEFINE
AS LINES." THAT'S NOT WHAT WE mean by
line theory.
>> Well, you were defining color as the
shadow and the absence of light. So,
what what I was doing, you were doing
similarly, but because we were getting
ridiculous with it.
>> I don't think I'm an artist who's
objective,
>> Rob. I'm I'm telling you that you you
know what you were doing essentially.
I'm telling you that you a drawing does
not require color or paint specifically,
right? It it could be monotone.
>> So not as important as a use of color
because it can be done in another sense.
Doesn't make your argument for that it
is more important than color. Do you
understand that?
>> Okay. Then I think pitch is more
important than rhythm.
>> The argument was what was more
important.
>> I think pitch is more important than
rhythm. I disagree with you.
>> Make an argument for it.
>> Okay. All songs would require some form
of pitch but not rhythm
there. That's the end OF MY SONG. PITCH
NECESSARY. NO RHYTHM. One solid. NO. THE
PITCH HAS to be
>> there was not a rhythmic structure to to
the
>> There was no There was no rhythm. It was
just pitch. It went up and it went down.
>> No rhythm.
>> That's a rhythm.
>> Okay, let's say I
>> starting and stopping a sound equals
rhythm.
>> Let's say Okay, here's my song
>> from start to end. It was the same tone
the whole way, the same pitch the whole
time. So, there's no rhythm.
>> Does it have a start and a stop?
>> Yes.
>> A s a sound wave will contain will
contain
like a rhythmic jump. It won't just be a
flat line.
>> Theoretically, you could have it's not
necessarily true. You could have a
>> a flat line would be an absence of
sound.
>> Not true.
You could start you could start like
here's sound. You could theoretically
hyperfocus on an area within a song that
would have a flat line. And if you chose
to begin and end the song right there,
it might be true that even the best
people controlling their pitch would
still have slight fluctuations. But you
could have a microsecond that you could
qualify as a song that literally has
some form of pitch. It has to have a
pitch to be audible but at the same time
continues flat the entire time. That's
hypothetically possible, right?
>> Okay. So, in a way, yes. Yes.
>> So, then pitch So, you acknowledge
>> designating designating some version of
sound would be Yes. Okay. So, see with
See, with that I'll be reasonable and
say yes, I understand that. But you see
how we're making objective arguments and
not subjective ones, Rob.
>> SO, NOW YOU ACKNOWLEDGE YOU WERE
INCORRECT WHEN YOU SAID rhythm is more
important.
>> I can be incorrect. I'm infallible. I'm
human. Yes.
>> Okay. SO THEN YOUR OBJECT SO SO what you
considered to be an objective metric was
just incorrect.
>> What? Sorry.
>> What you considered to be objective was
incorrect.
>> Can you repeat to me? Can you repeat to
me why you can you can you repeat to me
why you initially said rhythm was more
important?
I said rhythm was more important because
it designated the the the pace of the
sound and we you could necessarily not
require good pitch if it has good
rhythm.
>> Okay. So that's no longer true.
>> Okay, cool. So you made
>> No, I'm asking you. You're saying that
that's no longer true.
>> Yeah. No, I conceded. Yeah. So So yes,
>> I disagree. I don't think that THE FACT
THAT IT'S LIKE WELL SOME FORM OF PITCH
IS necessary for any song to exist means
that what you said is not true because
it's like Yeah. Hypothetically, that
could be true. But when we're talking
about what makes a good song or what
makes a song art, rhythm is going to be
more important. Of course, a necessity
would be there has to be some pitch to
some degree. But that's nothing. That's
bare minimum [__] That's not talking
about the best of the best in order to
become art. And what's more important?
>> Well, but but the the whole point of
tonight's all of tonight's debate is
ultimately that we can use objective
metrics to define these things. That's
what we're doing right now.
>> That is not the point. Are we not doing
that? Are we doing that RIGHT NOW?
>> NO. WHAT I AM EXHIBITING IS THE WAY IN
WHICH you're implying what you consider
to be objective measures IS
SUBJECTIVELY.
YOU'RE SAYING
>> HOW DID WE DO THAT? Objectively or
subjectively?
>> It's it.
>> It's not. Just answer the question. Did
we do it via objective means or
subjective means?
>> Subjective means.
>> How?
>> Who I mean I don't know WHAT TO SAY. IF
I said you thinking who the best
football player ever is subjective and
you SAY NO BECAUSE I'M USING OBJECTIVE
MEANS AND I OBJECTIVELY SAY THE BEST
FOOTBALL PLAYER IS THE PERSON WITH THE
HIGHEST NUMBER JERSEY AND THERE WAS A
GUY NUMBERED 100 THAT USED TO PLAY FOR
NOTRE DAME. THEREFORE, OBJECTIVELY BEST
PLAYER EVER. AND I'M LIKE WAIT THAT
MAKES NO SENSE, ROB. DID I NOT USE AN
OBJECTIVE METRIC? ISN'T IT OBJECTIVELY
TRUE THAT WE COULD LOOK AND SAY, "YEP,
THIS GUY'S JERSEY WAS 100." THAT'S AN
OBJECTIVE TRUTH, RIGHT? YEAH, I GUESS IT
IS. THEREFORE, I HAVE EXPLAINED WHY HE'S
THE BEST FOOTBALL PLAYER EVER
OBJECTIVELY. AND I SAY, "NO, YOU HAVE
TAKEN OBJECT OBJECTIVE MEASURE and
applied it subjectively." And you're
like, "No, my whole argument is THAT THE
METRIC THAT I USED WAS OBJECTIVE AND
THEREFORE SUBJECTIVITY HAD NOTHING TO DO
WITH IT.
>> That's stupid. My entire point is no,
you're still DOING IT SUBJECTIVELY.
YOU'RE JUST USING WHAT you're
considering ly it's not an argument to
what's more important.
>> No. If No, no, no, no, no. If
subjectivity was more important, you
would have been making subjective
arguments and not objective arguments. I
remind her.
>> How did you convince you objectively or
subjectively the initial argument like I
love when I get in debates and the
person changes their position to my
position and THEN ARG
YOUR CLAIM WAS AND I QUOTE I CLARIFIED
IT IN MY OPENING STATEMENT THAT art
should be quote
>> purely OBJECTIVE I.E. NO SUBJECTIVITY
WHATSOEVER.
>> YES. NOW YOU'RE CONCEDING. YES, OF
COURSE. WE WILL SUBJECTIVELY APPLY
OBJECTIVE MEASURE.
>> Human beings do that. Yes.
>> Then you're wrong.
>> Okay. So, so trans women are women
because subjective we can subjectively
apply criteria for biology. So that
makes it true. Good argument.
>> Your analogy makes no sense. In fact,
it's an argument.
>> You can do anything subjectively. I even
do math subjectively.
>> You just said that ALL HUMANS ARE ALWAYS
SUBJECTIVE. SO 2 PLUS 2 is 4 is
subjective. Correct.
>> 2+ 2. Dude, you can I can make an
assumptive argument for it.
>> Is 2 plus two true because it's
subjectively true or objectively true?
>> Because it's objectively true, right?
>> Wait a minute. HUMANS ALWAYS APPLY
SUBJECTIVITY. THAT'S YOUR ARGUMENT.
>> Can I make a subjective argument? Did
Have you heard the terren Howard
arguments for math?
>> You may you may choose one time. choose.
You may choose to make A SUBJECTIVE
ARGUMENT, BUT that's not the reason 2
plus 2 is four. It's true because it's
objectively true.
>> If I may, I Okay, so I think what's
happened over this over this debate so
far, I I think we have like an agreement
on there uh like the objective features,
they exist, you know, technique,
symmetry, color theory.
>> I don't necessarily agree because he
talks about things like historical
importance, which is subjective.
Well, yeah, but I'm saying I I thought
you guys agreed that those things exist,
but the disagreement is whether
selecting the feature
uh matters.
>> I SO, HERE'S HERE'S WHAT I'LL SAY. FOR
THE SAKE OF ARGUMENT, I'M CONCEDING
THAT. I DON'T KNOW if I have a music
expert in here that HE WOULD SAY, "YES,
THIS IS 100% PITCH. YES, THIS IS 100%
the best rhythm." He might say,
"Actually, it's sort of subjective,
right? THERE ARE THINGS ABOUT RHYTHM,
for example, that me and some other
expert might say, "This is what I prefer
with my rhythm."
>> The purpose of a guitar tuner
>> is perfect pitch.
>> Nonetheless, perfect pitch.
>> So, we can use a machine to
>> No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
>> Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes, we can. Yes, we
can.
>> Listen, I'm not saying perfect pitch in
that sense. You might hit the perfect F,
the perfect G, the perfect A, the
perfect B. OKAY.
>> BUT IT IS AS A WHOLE, is that pitch
perfect, desirable, or can you, an
expert, say the pitch, the actual notes
that were hit in this song was
preferable than the actual notes that
were hit in THIS SONG. BOTH OF THEM
weren't flat or sharp the entire song.
They were perfectly on pitch of WHAT
THEY DESIRED. BUT I PREFERRED the pitch
in this song versus the pitch in this
song. And you MIGHT SAY, "HOW COULD THAT
BE?" THEY WERE 100%. THEIR GUITARS WERE
TUNED PERFECTLY. THAT'S NOT WHAT WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT. WE'RE SAYING WHICH PITCH
WOULD BE PREFERABLE. One of one expert
might say, "I feel this." And another
expert might say, "No, THAT'S ACTUALLY
NOT WHAT I WOULD CONSIDER THE SONG I
would say had the perfect pitch." Same
could be rhythm. YOU MIGHT ASK SOMEONE,
YOU KNOW, LET'S SAY THAT WE HAD PEOPLE,
YOU KNOW, WE GET A TIME MACHINE. We have
the historical experts and here's Mozart
and here's Beethoven and here's [__]
John Bonham for [__] LED ZEPPELIN
WHATEVER PEOPLE THAT WE'VE BEEN
>> YEAH. But Rob, I CAN DO THAT WITH MATH.
I CAN SAY I don't like 1 plus 1. I like
2 * 4. That's to me is a better piece of
math right there.
>> You don't see the difference.
>> But I'm telling you, Rob, we can make
subjective determinations even upon
math. I can say I don't think 2 * 4 is a
cool equation. I think 69 * 67 is a
better equation.
>> You're wrong. you're wrong because it's
objectively not true and we could test
it. NOW, IF JOHN BONHAM SAYS, "MY
FAVORITE, I'M ONE OF THE GREATEST
DRUMMERS OF ALL TIME and here's the song
I THINK HAS THE BEST RHYTHM IN HISTORY."
RIGHT? AND ANOTHER EXPERT COMES ALONG
AND SAYS, "I DISAGREE. I THINK THAT'S A
VERY GOOD SONG, BUT THIS ONE'S THE
BEST." WHICH ONE'S RIGHT?
>> It's one saying two is four and THE
OTHER IS SAYING 2 PLUS 8'S FOUR. NO,
IT'S NOT AN OBJECTIVE TRUTH. IT'S
SUBJECTIVE.
>> So I think the I think the um the
disagreement remains whether choosing
which features matter introduces subject
subjectivity. Right?
>> Two arguments that argument that I'm
making secondly that I never got to is
even the things he's saying are
objective aren't. Right? And then the
second is even if they were objective
and we could say this is the greatest
rhythm song of all time. This is the
greatest pitch song of all time. How you
choose to apply those objective measures
in determining whether or not something
is art is itself subjective?
>> Yeah. So I the real question becomes can
art be objective if the waiting of the
objective criteria is subjective.
>> Correct. That's one. And the second
argument is is it objective in the first
place? I don't think so either. I'VE LET
IT GO the whole debate, but I don't
think so. But Rob, like I I explained to
you as well, pure analytical data is
still subjectively determined by people.
A human looking at something and
analyzing something makes a subjective
determination.
>> But there are objective truths that
flawed humans who are subjective can
still see there's an objective truth.
Yes.
>> Like 2 plus 2 is four. That is a parrot,
right? That is a biological male. We
could see there's OBJECTIVE TRUTH. EVEN
THOUGH AS humans we all are imperfect
and view the world through the lens of
subjectivity as us being the subject,
there still are things that we consider
objective truths. That is NOT THE CASE.
THAT is not the case. That is not the
case with art.
>> Perfect pitch is objective.
>> NO, PERFECT PITCH. You could say this is
a G,
>> right?
>> Yes.
>> Give me a G. Give me a G.
>> That's objective.
>> Give me a G. You got You got it. I used
to get impressed when my music teacher
could do this.
>> I don't have glasses. I'm gonna have to
shave my head if I got to do a G. I
can't do Andrew Tate right now. Do I do
got to do a top or bottom G or you got
to start dancing? No, but what I'm
telling you is the G the note a G is an
objective thing, right?
>> That might be true, but the compilation
of how pleasing it is to combine
multiple notes of perfect pitch into a
song to say that's the song with the
best pitch ever is subjective.
THAT'S JUST TRUE, RIGHT? OTHERWISE, WE
WOULD SAY, YOU KNOW WHAT THE BEST ART
IS? THE GUY WHO TUNED HIS GUITAR the
best.
>> That doesn't make any sense.
>> There's Well, we don't just use one
metric. We determine the pitch of
something by by objective metrics. But
when we go a song now, there's multiple
um facets to how we would look at the
song.
>> Okay. But even in the concept of pitch,
we could say overall the pitch
>> in THAT SONG SUCKED. ALL THE NOTES WERE
t correctly tuned. But the way in which
they arranged the notes, the pitch
didn't make sense. Going from a B to an
F, then back to an A, then back to an F.
Like the P, it didn't make sense. It
doesn't follow what we would consider an
appealing like tonality or pitch that we
would see from song to song. AND IF I
RETORTED, BUT IT WAS A PERFECT PITCH.
that guitar was tuned with the most
expert, you know, tools whatsoever to
show that
>> the only criteria Rob
that's the only listen but I'm saying is
even in the criteria of pitch we don't
just say that the pitch as in it was
tuned well we say the way in which PITCH
WAS APPLIED AND THAT'S WHAT'S SUBJECTIVE
IT'S NOT AS SCIENTIFIC AS YOU'RE SAYING
WE KNOW WHAT A G IS we could program the
tuner to say this is a perfect G IT IS
HOW DO WE PROGRAM A SONG THAT MIGHT have
600 notes in it. And if each of those
notes WERE PERFECTLY TUNED, DOES THAT
automatically mean the pitch in the song
was good? NO. WE COULD SAY THAT THE
PITCH WAS OFF. Some people might say, "I
prefer this." The same is true of
rhythm. WE MIGHT SAY THERE YOU COULD,
AGAIN, THAT'S WHY YOU COULD HAVE
AMAZING, excellent drummers who are
>> Yeah, but rhythm has timing to it,
right? We have like a a three, four,
five, six. We have we have objective
measurements for these things. again. So
something could be imperfect four four
time the whole song and it could be
greatest rhythm ever IN A SONG. YOU'D
SAY NO. OKAY, IT STAYED IN TIME ON 44.
It just hit a [__] quarter note THE
WHOLE SONG. THAT'S NOT A GOOD RHYTHM.
YEAH, IT WAS ON TIME. TECHNICALLY IT WAS
FOUR FOUR TIME BUT LIKE EVEN AND IN FACT
PURPOSELY BEING LATE OR FAST AND ALL
THAT [__] COULD SHIFT THE VIBE THE
RHYTHM OF A SONG WHICH IS GOOD. SO WHEN
I SAID THEN WHAT IS THE BEST RHYTHM SONG
EVER? 10 different experts might have 10
different
>> rhythm is not the only thing that we
look at right objectively we would look
at the the the pauses between rhythms
variation in rhythms.
>> Yes. Yes. And it's subjective.
Now what is all measur measurable and
non I just want you to be honest. I want
you to be honest. If we took ME AND YOU
TODAY THE BEST FIVE LIVING DRUMMERS,
RIGHT? We'd somehow come to a consensus.
Yep. We agree. These are the experts,
right?
>> And we SAID ALL OF YOU GIVE US WHAT YOU
THINK THE SONG WITH the best rhythm EVER
IS. WHAT DO YOU THINK THE chances are
that any of them name the same song?
>> Can we can we create a song? Can a drama
create a song that we can objectively
see that nobody else can play that song?
Is it is it logically possible that
there could be a drummer that is so
skilled that he plays a song that nobody
else could play?
>> Yes, that's theoretically possible. I
think
>> yeah and I would say that doesn't mean
it's good.
>> But good is a subjective determination.
That doesn't mean that it's bad.
>> If we say that that is a piece of art
because nobody can replicate it, I would
not be incorrect in saying that.
>> NO. JUST BECAUSE OTHER PEOPLE CAN'T
REPLICATE it doesn't mean that it's art.
If I could fart IN A UNIQUE PITCH over
and over again and no one else could do
it, is that art?
If it's something that only you can do
by facto of it being unique to only one
person, that would probably be art
because the skill set displayed can only
be done by one human.
>> Okay, let me ask you this. Does it have
to be replicatable? WHAT IF AN ARTIST
BANGS OUT A DRUM SOLO THAT HE CAN NEVER
do again, but you listen to it like,
"Holy [__] no other drummer ever could
do that."
>> Yeah, I would probably say, "Man, [__]
that's odd." Even if it's just [__]
crazy noise, I would go, "Man, [__]
that's crazy. That dude is highly
[__] skilled.
>> SO SKILLED at it that nobody can
replicate what he's doing."
>> If Per plays YZ, right? Y Z for the
Canadians out there, right? if he plays
it on [__] you know, he takes him 50
TAKES AND HE FINALLY GETS IT IN THE
STUDIO AND THEN HE'S LIKE, I can't play
it live. I I was just [__] is that art
if he can't replicate it.
I mean, the the the lack of being able
to to replicate it would would would
signify some kind of difficulty to it,
right?
there. No one could ever replicate that
art.
>> No one's going to exactly do that.
That's art, right?
>> Yeah, they could. Yeah, they could.
>> SO, THERE IT IS. THAT'S ART. I JUST
CREATED ART.
>> I mean, that was nail that banana to the
wall. That's maybe
ever nail that banana to the wall in the
exact same way I did it. With the exact
same type of nail, with the exact same
hammer, the exact same length of banana.
It's totally unique. never be ABLE TO BE
REPLICATED. THAT'S ART.
>> YEAH,
>> you agree
>> it somebody displaying a a a unique
skill set that's not replicatable would
probably be art. Yes,
>> THERE YOU GO. THAT BANANA IS ART NOW. NO
ONE WILL EVER BE ABLE TO COMPLETELY
replicate it.
>> Yeah, they would.
>> How is your definition ANY BETTER THAN
WHAT YOU'RE
>> HOW DO you mean How do you mean somebody
couldn't replicate the a [__] banana?
>> Because it's never going to be exactly
the same. Did they make the banana?
>> No. So, did they make the paint? Maybe
not necessarily,
>> but art requires you to make something,
Rob.
>> They did. They made it the They made the
the sculpture, the picture.
>> So, just to be clear, if the artist
doesn't make the paint, if the painter
doesn't
>> I made a banana.
If the painter doesn't create his own
paint, then he's not an artist.
No, but I would probably say the painter
who can create his own art is at a
higher level of being an artist than the
person who couldn't. Right.
>> Maybe so. But it's question not a higher
level of art. It's a question of art.
Your argument was if someone does
something
with your argument was your argument
just was if someone does something
that's not replicatable totally, then
it's art.
>> But nothing's 100% replicatable ever. I
WOULD SAY THAT'S A BAD DEFINITION. I
MADE A BUNCH OF RANDOM SOUNDS really
fast with my mouth. No one will ever be
able to completely replicate that.
They'll always be off a
>> You're just claiming that. You're just
You're just claiming that nobody would
be ABLE TO
>> THE EXACT on like to the like
>> You're telling me if a beatboxer
practiced, they wouldn't be able to
replicate that. Or you
>> be able to come close, but not exactly.
>> What do you mean? Do you We have
impersonators that perfectly copy
people.
>> That's not true. It's a It's a thing.
who
>> that is that is what voice impersonation
is
>> perfectly as in indistinguishable if you
>> Well, now we're just going to be on the
threshold break of what determines
perfect replication.
>> Wait, wait, WAIT, WAIT, WAIT, WAIT,
WAIT, WAIT, WAIT. NO, you're the person
who said perfectly. There are people
that could be very convincing.
>> No, I never said perfectly. I said be
able to replicate it.
>> You literally used the word perfectly.
You used the word perfectly.
>> Not initially. No, I didn't. you brought
in perfectly.
>> But it is but YOU'RE TELLING ME RIGHT
NOW. SO YOU SAID, "Is it possible for a
drummer to come up with a beat, right,
that theoretically no one will ever be
able to replicate?" POSSIBLE. IT'S ALSO
POSSIBLE FOR a complete amateur to make
a bunch of [__] random sounds that
also wouldn't BE [__] REPLICATABLE.
IS THAT NOT POSSIBLE?
>> U pro probably not because somebody
who's skilled enough
>> somebody who's skilled enough could
probably replicate it, Rob. Okay. THEN
SOMEONE WHO'S SKILLED ENOUGH COULD
REPLICATE that song eventually that you
said is not replicatable. Give them
enough time, they'll be able to do it.
>> Would would they have to be an artist to
re replicate a song that is so difficult
that almost nobody can except that one
other person?
>> It doesn't matter. Would you have to be
an artist? Would you have to be an
artist to sit down and replicate a
person making a bunch of random sounds
at a rapid pace?
>> Probably. And does that mean I'm an
artist now?
>> No, not necessarily. I mean, you could
have a computer do it.
>> The replicatability of it is irrelevant,
right? Or the HOW SKILL JUST BECAUSE
SOMEONE does something that's very hard
for other people to do doesn't mean it's
art. IT COULD STILL OBJECTIVELY BE [__]
FOR EXAMPLE, IT GOES, and by the way,
it's counterintuitive to everything
you've been arguing, right? I
specifically for Yes, BECAUSE I SAID,
OKAY, WE HAVE ALL THESE rules of
specific types of art. You you went
through them painstakingly when it comes
to painting. here's things we do, you
know, color theory, line theory, etc.
When it comes to music, rhythm, tone,
blah, blah, blah. But you went THROUGH
THESE. I WAS LIKE, "WHAT IF YOU
INTENTIONALLY subvert them?" And you
were like, "I don't think that's art. I
don't think that'd be art." Okay. What
if you intentionally
>> What if you intentionally subvert them?
>> This is giving me broad brush
hypothetical.
>> What if you intentionally What if YOU
INTENTIONALLY SUBVERT THEM in a way
THAT'S NOT POSSIBLE TO REPLICATE? ROB,
if I go if I go if I go this
hypothetical chemical and this other
hypothetical chemical, what would be the
the chemical reaction?
>> I don't have something to analyze. Do
you understand that?
>> No, no, no, no. That's
>> when we talk about something that's an
object.
>> That's an absolute combo. THAT'S SO
>> IF you have if I have to analyze an
object without an object, we're not this
isn't philosophy that we can kind of do
logic. Is this logical? Ask me, ask me
the question again about can a drummer
create
>> talking about physical things.
>> Ask me the question again about can a
drummer create a song that no other
drummer could do. Go ahead. Ask me that
question.
>> Yes. Is it is it theoretically possible
for a drummer to play something so
complex that another drummer couldn't be
ABLE TO REPLICATE?
>> IF I HAD CHEMICAL A AND MIXED IT WITH
CHEMICAL B, I CAN'T TELL YOU WHAT THE
HYPOTHETICAL IMPLICATIONS THAT WOULD BE.
SO THIS QUESTION IS STUPID.
SHE HELPED ME.
>> WELL, I GAVE you I gave you specific
well but but was I speaking well but I
was speaking about somebody doing
something not specifically now talking
about art or a song. I wasn't going a
song or something going into a to to
more complexity. I was just saying with
this one
>> no you have no threshold. You were
giving a hypothetical in a very similar
tone in which I'm giving a hypothetical.
Your hypothetical,
>> but it's different because if you tell
me to analyze the thing that your
hypothetical WAS, COULD AN ARTIST create
a piece that other ARTISTS COULDN'T
REPLICATE? MY HYPOTHETICAL IS IF AN
ARTIST CREATES a piece THAT GOES AGAINST
ALL OF THE THEORY OF WHAT YOU THINK
WOULD BE GOOD ART, BUT IT'S NOT
REPLICATABLE, is that now art? That's
it. IT'S THE EXACT SAME TYPE OF
HYPOTHETICAL you're asking. And you
don't want to
>> say that would give a determination of a
certain skill set of a higher level of
skill set. So even IF HE VIOLATES ALL
THE RULES OF THIS particular art, music
for example, BUT OTHER ARTISTS CAN'T
REPLICATE it now, you say it's art.
I would say that their skill set is of a
level that it would be that it would be
a higher level skill set that would
probably be art if other factors come in
and we make an objective determination.
>> So this is a big way of saying you don't
have an objective criteria, a bunch of
ifs ands and buts, RIGHT? THAT'S NOT AN
ANSWER TO THE QUESTION. AGAIN, ONCE
MORE, SHOWING the subjective nature of
this. And what I would say is this,
RIGHT? LIKE YOU'VE already conceded that
just because someone's a fantastic
artist doesn't mean that everything they
do is art. So you could say I I don't
think it's unreasonable to say this, and
I think if you stand back, you would
probably agree if you weren't in debate,
broine, which is this, like just because
someone does something that's difficult
to replicate doesn't mean that it's art.
It could be objectively [__] and not
art. It could be just total randomness.
A complete a complete what? LIKE FOR
EXAMPLE, IF YOU would acknowledge this
like music for example, we could
theoretically break down into like
binary, right?
>> Mhm.
>> OKAY. SO IF I TOOK RANDOM BINARY CODE
JUST [__] FOR LIKE THAT WOULD LEAD TO
two hours WORTH OF MUSIC JUST BAM RAND
TOTAL RANDOM NUMBER GENERATOR. Random
binary NUMBER GENERATOR, RIGHT? THAT
would be almost impossible at some point
for a human to replicate, but we
wouldn't consider it art.
>> We would say THE REPLICATABILITY HAS
NOTHING TO DO with it.
>> Yes. Well, if if it Well, well, the the
numbers necessarily is not something
that would be a claim to art. That's
math.
>> YEAH. BUT NONETHELESS, WE COULD TAKE
that and put it out tonally, right? AND
WE WOULD SAY, "OH [__] NO ONE COULD
REPLICATE THAT." and we'd say, "Yeah,
but that still doesn't make it art." But
and I would say, "But I created I
actually hit the numbers to do that
random generator."
>> Well, I would say the metrics that I
would say it's an objective metric that
would be a good you thing to utilize to
determine whether something is art
solely on that criteria. You couldn't
make the determination of whether it is
art. No.
>> Okay. I agree with you. So once more, so
once more, we have a bunch of like it's
not really rules. It's a BUNCH OF
GUIDELINES. THERE'S NO HARD AND FAST
RULE. And that's that's sort of making
an argument for we need a couple we need
a more we need multiple objective
metrics to determine if something's art.
You're not making an argument for it's
just subjective.
>> We're making that we're making two
arguments. The argument I'm making here
is you are using what you consider to be
objective metrics, but you're applying
them subjectively. And that's different
than something like math. math. YOU
MIGHT SAY, "I SUBJECTIVELY feel 2 plus
two is four because XYZ." But we don't
say that that subjective reason is the
reason. It's true. Music's different.
Painting's different. Sculpture is
different. We say WE MIGHT SAY, "AH, WE
COULD ALL look at like anyone who's
remotely knowledgeable could look at a
sculpture and say, YOU KNOW WHAT, THAT'S
[__] AMAZING MUSCLE DEFINITION. The
details that THEY PUT IN, LIKE THAT'S WE
COULD ALL AGREE WITH THAT." AND yet
reasonable people could say, "But I
think the rest of it [__]
>> I think that the technical skill, right?
So I don't think this is art." And you
might say, "I disagree. I think you I
real quick." You might SAY, "BUT I
DISAGREE." I THINK THAT the muscle
definition in this sculpture is so good
that TO ME IT OUTWEIGHS the other flaws.
>> Reasonable.
>> Yes. But remember, I I told you, Rob,
like we can whether we determine whether
I like this thing or not is not how I
determine what is odd or not. Whether I
like it or not.
>> No. No. But Not saying muscle definition
on a sculpture, but it's a it's a it's a
it's a [__] bluehead liberal. I would
still say that's probably a piece of art
because it's it's it's it's replicating
or it's imitating the person perfectly.
It's it's done in a sculpture. Maybe
it's all these other metrics. It's
carved out of all these other
>> That's not true. But we're saying
hypothetically some of these OTHER
METRICS AREN'T GOOD. THE FACE LOOKS LIKE
[__] AND THE THE TECHNIQUE used to
That's objective.
>> It's
>> But we could go, is the face replicated
correctly?
>> YOU'RE SAYING THERE'S NO OBJECTIVE WAY
TO LOOK AT A PICTURE OF THIS PERSON and
look at a sculpture THERE'S FACE AND SAY
OBJECTIVELY THAT DOESN'T LOOK LIKE THIS
PERSON.
>> YES, but that wouldn't But if that is
the case, it would probably NOT BE ART,
>> RIGHT? SO YOU WOULD SAY TWO EXPERTS
COULD SAY THIS. ONE EXPERT COULD SAY,
"LOOK, THE FACE SUCKS AND THE technique
they used WAS AMATEURISH, BUT HOT DAMN,
THAT MUSCLE DEFINITION IS SO [__]
PRECISE. I CONSIDER THIS ART." AND
ANOTHER PERSON MIGHT SAY, "NO, I think
that the mistakes that we see in other
ports are too amateur-ish. I don't
consider THIS ART." NOW, YOU MISJUDGE
THIS. You say, "Well, Rob, I'm not
saying whether or not I like it is
whether or not it qualifies for art."
WELL, YEAH, YOU ARE. YOU MIGHT NOT USE
THE WORD LIKE, BUT WHAT YOU'RE SAYING IS
IT HAS TO GET TO A CERTAIN CRITERIA that
you think it's amongst the TOP
PERCENTAGE, RIGHT? WHICH IS YOUR
SUBJECTIVE OPINION.
>> THAT'S EXACTLY MY ARGUMENT. THIS PERSON
>> YEAH. MY opinion is subjective to me.
Correct.
>> YES. SO IF YOUR DEFINITION OF ART IS
WHAT YOU subjectively feel based on
using what you consider to be objective
metrics is THE TOP 5 TO 10%.
>> That does not subjectivity.
>> That's different. Does that remove the
objective metrics though?
>> It does not matter. The way you're
applying THOSE METRICS ARE SUBJECTIVE.
AGAIN, I GO BACK TO THE FOOTBALL
EXAMPLE. IF I SAY THE BEST FOOTBALL
PLAYER IS THE ONE WITH THE HIGHEST
NUMBER, IS IT NOT TRUE IF there was one
player with number 100? I SAY THAT'S AN
OBJECTIVE TRUTH. YOU WOULD SAY YES, BUT
THAT'S A SUBJECTIVE INTERPRETATION OF
WHY THAT MAKES THE BEST FOOTBALL PLAYER.
AND I WOULD RETORT, BUT IT'S OBJECTIVE.
I USED AN OBJECTIVE METRIC.
YEAH, but I mean that's just [__] to
to claim that the number on their jersey
is what makes them the best player.
That's just subjective determination.
But we can objectively look at their
statistics.
>> No, you can't. Have you ever talked to
people about sports? It never goes that
way,
>> dude. We can eventually if we look at
the objective, but that's because
they're saying who they like. We can
objectively look at a football players
metrics, their yards ran, the the
touchdowns. We can look at all of these
objective metrics to determine who has
the highest number, can we not?
>> Okay, SO IF WE'RE TRYING TO FIGURE OUT,
let's say the
>> Wait, no, no, no. Answer my question.
Can we do that?
>> Yes, we could determine the who has the
highest number objectively. No, we can't
agree that that highest No, we can't
agree that that highest number means
they're the best.
>> Yes, we don't have to agree about it,
but we can use objective metrics to
determine a number.
>> What I'm TRYING TO TELL YOU OH MY
GOODNESS. I CAN'T BELIEVE YOU DON'T GET
this right. WE HAVE SOMETHING CALLED THE
Hall of Fame. You know what that is?
>> Yeah.
>> VERY SIMILAR TO WHAT YOUR CATEGORIZ LIKE
THE TOP 5% OR SO IT'S LESS THAN THAT
EVEN PROBABLY THE TOP 1% of football
players get in. Okay.
NOW WE EVERY TIME THAT THE DISCUSSION
COMES UP OF WHO TO PUT IN THE HALL OF
FAME, EVERYBODY'S USING OBJECTIVE
NUMBERS. EVERYBODY. EVERYBODY USES THEM.
HOW MANY TOUCHDOWNS DID THEY THROW? HOW
MANY INTERCEPTIONS DID THEY HAVE? HOW
MANY GAMES DID THEY WIN? HOW MANY SUPER
BOWLS? WHAT ERA DID THEY PLAY IN? HOW
MANY what was, you know, how many WHAT
WAS THE AVERAGE TOUCHDOWNS THROWN BY
QUARTERBACKS IN ALL OF THESE ARE
OBJECTIVE. ALL OF AND NO ONE CAN AGREE.
NO ONE. EVERYBODY'S LIKE, WELL, I
ACTUALLY THINK DAN MARINO, EVEN THOUGH
HE DIDN'T WIN A SUPER BOWL, HE PLAYED in
an era where he THREW SO MANY MORE
touchdowns than the quarterbacks AROUND
HIM. AND THERE'S OTHER INTANGIBLES. HIS
TEAM SUCKED. HIS TEAM SUCKED. AND HE
STILL PROPELLED THEM EVEN THOUGH HE
NEVER WON A SUPER BOWL. AND THEN SOMEONE
ELSE WILL GO, "YEAH, BUT come on."
>> Yeah, you're making my argument that
even with objective metrics, we can come
to subjective determination.
>> THAT'S MY ARGUMENT. THAT IS EXACTLY MY
ARGUMENT. THEREFORE, IT IS
>> is that how we should judge something
subjectively or objectively? Should is
should that be the case of how we judge
things on our opinion, our feelings, and
our emotions? Rob,
>> the a two-parter two-parter.
>> Men men can be women. Men can be women
because we're going to subjectively
judge things.
>> I will answer. There's two answers. One,
you have changed the question because
your prompt isn't judging. Your prompt
is defining something as art. SO, IT
WOULD BE akin of me saying defining
someone as a football player. You're
only a football player if you're in the
top 5%. Right. Secondly, YES, WE SHOULD
TRY TO USE objective metrics, but
inevitably we will use subjective ones.
Oh, so we should use objective metrics.
>> We should we should NOT SAY THAT
SOMETHING'S not defined as such if there
is
>> objective metrics or subjective emotions
for for judging things.
>> Possibly both, but certainly we should
strive to have some measure of
objectivity. However, if your argument
is inevitably it's impossible, then you
concede that the prompt is worthless.
I'm saying high order charact category
should be judged objectively and not
subjectively because true subjective
interpretation of objective measures.
You
>> objectivity and emotions are nonsense
and you've just displayed that because
people can argue over objective numbers
because of subjective emotional
appearance.
>> That's not true.
>> Yes.
>> It's what we sit with in biology. It's
what we sit with
>> models. If that's true, you you don't
particularly have a football team that
you like the best, right?
Correct.
>> I don't watch football. So, I would
>> You DON'T HAVE NO REASON TO FAVOR A
PLAYER for the Steelers versus a player
for the Cowboys versus a player for the
P. Right. You really have no reason to
do that. You have no skin in the game.
Correct.
>> If you asked me, right, what what Rob,
if if you told me to guess,
>> Rob, if you asked me to place a bait on
on who I think is my my my choice for a
football team, I would use objective
metrics, not subjective, because I don't
watch football. Thank you for answering
that question that wasn't asked, right?
MY QUESTION IS WHAT I'M SAYING IS YOU
HAVE NO skin in the game. IT'S NOT LIKE
LIKE PERHAPS IF YOU'RE into soccer or
something, you're like, well, I prefer
this team, so even if it's subconscious,
I'll have a bias that favors, right? You
don't have that when it comes to the
National Football League. Correct.
>> No. So, I would objective.
>> Then I have a question. When determining
who's the best quarterback of all time,
should we LOOK AT TOTAL TOUCHDOWNS or
Super Bowl victories?
>> Objectively, there's an answer. You
don't have a sub. would say we would
never we would we wouldn't be able to
make determinations off OF ONE METRIC.
>> OH. SO THEN TELL ME THEN OBJECTIVELY
WHAT IS THE TOTALITY OF METRICS WE WOULD
USE SCIENTIFICALLY YOU'LL BE ABLE
>> all of their statistics all of their
numerical statistics.
>> Okay. Which one's more important?
>> See now you're now again you I answer
your question then you shift the
goalpost. Then you shift the goal.
>> No but this is what you've been doing
the whole night is I give you an answer
then you shift the goal post.
>> That's not shifting THE GOAL POST. WHAT
I'M ILLUSTRATING IS THIS.
>> I GAVE YOU AN ANSWER AND then you
shifted to another to another to another
point.
>> We could see objectively shifting. Let
me explain what's going on. WE COULD
OBJECTIVELY LOOK AT WHO HAS THE MOST
SUPER BOWLS. WE COULD OBJECTIVELY LOOK
AT WHO HAS THE MOST TOUCHDOWNS. WE COULD
OBJECTIVELY LOOK AT WHO HAS THE MOST
WINS AND STILL WE'LL DISAGREE ON WHICH
OF THOSE METRICS are most important
combined in determining who the greatest
or who should be in the Hall of Fame,
ETC. YOUR RESPONSE TO THIS IS THUS, BUT
THAT'S BECAUSE YOU HAVE SKIN IN THE
GAME. THAT'S BECAUSE YOU'RE BIASED.
YOU'RE GOING TO FAVOR THE GUY FROM THE
TEAM THAT YOU LIKE. NOW, I DON'T THINK
THAT'S THE CASE. AND SO, THE WAY THAT
I'M TRYING TO I THINK THAT THAT COULD BE
THE CASE, BUT I DON'T THINK IT'S
UNIVERSALLY TRUE. SO, THE WAY I BREAK
THROUGH THAT IS I SAY, "OKAY, CHRIS, you
don't have that bias, right?" You're
like, "Right, I DON'T HAVE THAT BIAS."
AND I SAY, "BUT EVEN STILL, GIVEN THE
INSANE AMOUNT OF variables that we could
look at at all of these objective
metrics of all of these statistics, you
may come to a different conclusion THAN
ANOTHER PERSON WHO HAS NO BIAS JUST LIKE
YOU." NONE. YOU'RE STILL GOING TO COME
TO A SUBJECTIVE INTERPRETATION USING THE
OBJECTIVE DATA.
>> THAT'S WHAT'S GOING TO HAPPEN.
>> You can't get around this. The same is
true of determining.
>> You can argue over who won football
games because of subjective appeals to
[__] the the ref sucks or they they mist
mistook. But there's objective numbers
to these things. I've already told you
yes, human beings can make subjective
claims to things.
But if we work, we can come to a true
answer only via objective metrics for
higher order categories.
>> I don't I don't I don't know if you're
debate brewing or if you're this [__]
stupid. I I I literally don't know what
to say. I don't KNOW WHAT TO SAY. THE
WHOLE POINT OF YOUR PROMPT BEING WRONG
IS it is not possible. IT IS NOT
POSSIBLE. IF IT WAS POSSIBLE TO
OBJECTIVELY SAY ART SHOULD ONLY BE THE
TOP FIVE TO 10 PERCENT. AND HERE IS THE
EXACT QUALIFICATION, THE OBJECTIVE
METRICS WE DETERMINE AS TO WHETHER OR
NOT SOMETHING'S THE TOP FIVE OR 10%. IF
THAT WERE POSSIBLE, YOU COULD WRITE IT
DOWN AND THERE WOULD BE NO NEED FOR
CRITICS. NONE. THERE WOULD BE NO
INTERPRET. IT WOULD LITERALLY JUST BE
SCIENTIFIC. LITERALLY, WE WOULD BE ABLE
TO PUT IT INTO like Super Grock or
something and just be like, "Is this
art?" And it'd go, "LET'S RUN THE LITTLE
FORMULA." YES, IT'S ART. NO, IT'S NOT
ART. THAT'S NOT POSSIBLE. IT IS NOT
BECAUSE THE IDEA OF BEING EXCLUSIVELY
OBJECTIVE IS NOT POSSIBLE. IT ISN'T
POSSIBLE. PARTICULARLY WHEN YOUR
DEFINITION RELIES ON A COLLECTION OF
WHAT WE HAVE DEEMED EXPERTS. These
humans WILL ALSO ALWAYS INCREASE
SUBJECTIVITY. YOUR ANSWER IS GOING TO BE
YOUR ANSWER TO THIS is
>> yes. BUT IF WE ARE GOING TO SUBJECTIVELY
DETERMINE, WOULDN'T IT BE BETTER TO HAVE
THAT SUBJECTIVE INTERPRETATION USING
OBJECTIVE METRICS? YES, LARGELY THAT
WOULD BE TRUE. HOWEVER, your prompt that
IT SHOULD BE QUOTE PURELY OBJECTIVE IS
NOT POSSIBLE. IT IS NOT POSSIBLE. IF IT
WERE POSSIBLE, IT WOULD BE DONE. WE
WOULD HAVE PEOPLE that here's the
criteria. Here's what's art and HERE'S
WHAT'S NOT. WHEN IT COMES TO A
SCULPTURE, HERE ARE THE EXACT CRITERIA
THAT YOU NEED TO MEET BEFORE IT'S
CONSIDERED ART. IT DOES NOT EXIST.
>> ROB, just listen quickly. I explained to
you earlier that we do this with biology
with in the case of transgender people.
We do this with objective metrics. I
explained to you at the start, I did say
yes, we can always make subjective
determinations even upon objective
things because some people are [__]
I get that. And I also mentioned that my
argument with this is that I said I
understand that it's not the case right
now. I did say this at the start that
it's not the case right now, but I was
making a ought argument for that a
higher order category which I hold this
thing to be should be based on objective
metric.
>> That's not what you said. You said it
should be purely objective which is not
possible. You also conceded that if it's
not possible then it's not a good
prompt.
>> Again, you go to like biology possible
though like let's go back to its let's
go back to it's a parrot.
>> It's a parrot now. It was a parrot 10
years ago. It was a parrot 100 years
ago. IT WILL BE A PARROT 100 YEARS FROM
NOW. WE COULD BIOLOGICALLY SEE WHAT A
PARROT IS. NOW YOU'RE TALKING. YOU'RE
PROVING MY POINT. WHAT WE CONSIDER AN
ARTISTIC representation of a parrot TO
BE IS SUBJECTIVE. IT'S NOT LIKE THE
BIOLOGICAL STRUCTURE OF WHAT A PARROT
actually is. It would be more AKIN TO
THIS IF I SAID I CONSIDER REAL parrots
to only be the TOP 10 TO 5 TO 10% OF THE
PARODY IS PARADISE. And you said, "What?
Well, what what makes a parrot more
parody?" AND I SAY, "OH, YOU KNOW, THE
PLUMAGE. THE PLUMAGE is very important."
AND BEAK STRUCTURE. I THINK BEAK
STRUCTURE IS VERY IMPORTANT. SO THAT
PARROT OVER THERE THAT THEY'RE SELLING
IT, I DON'T THINK THAT SHOULD BE
CONSIDERED A PARROT. TO ME, IF I ENTERED
IT INTO A PARROT SHOW, IT WOULDN'T WIN.
IT'S NOT IN THE TOP 5% of the
characteristics we say makes THE IDEAL
PARROT. THEREFORE, I don't consider IT A
PARROT. THAT'S AKIN TO WHAT YOU'RE
DOING. BIOLOGICALLY, IT'S A [__]
PARROT. we can SEE THAT IT'S A PARROT.
YOU THEN SAYING, "WELL, WE COULD DO THE
SAME THING WITH BIOLOGY." NO, WE CAN'T.
YOU CAN'T DO IT WITH SCIENCE. YOU CAN'T
do it WITH MATH. THERE IS OBJECTIVE
TRUTH. WHAT YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT HERE IS
we could. And again, I don't even
concede your argument that it's the
measures you're talking about ARE
OBJECTIVE. BUT EVEN IF I DID, RIGHT, YOU
COULD STILL FAVOR WHICH ONES ARE MOST
IMPORTANT WHEN IT COMES TO DETERMINING
WHAT'S THE BEST 5 TO 10%. And it's easy
TO SEE THIS. YOU COULD TAKE SOMETHING
LIKE HOUSING EXPERTS AND SAY, "SHOW ME
THE TOP FIVE HOUSES in this town." AND
YOU'RE GOING TO GET DIFFERENT [__]
EXAMPLES FROM EACH PERSON AND THEY MIGHT
SAY, "HERE'S the things we objectively
think makes a good house." And they're
ALL GOING TO LIST VERY SIMILAR THINGS.
And yet, seeing as how IT'S NOT GOING TO
BE THAT EASY THAT ONE'S clearly number
one, one's clearly number two, one's
going to be best at this thing, but
second best at this, HOW DO WE EVALUATE?
PEOPLE ARE GOING TO SUBJECTIVELY
INTERPRET. IT'S NOT LIKE THE BIOLOGY.
SECONDLY, I don't understand how YOU
COULD LIKE I DON'T THINK YOU COULD get
around to the fact that THERE IS NO
OBJECTIVE METRIC ON THIS [__] EVEN ON
THE HYPER SPECIFICS OBJECTIVELY, what's
the song with the best rhythm ever?
>> Rob. Rob. The significance of the
pyramids. Is it objective or subjective?
>> Subjective.
>> Oh, okay. So, it's not that we can't
replicate them. The the historic
significance, all of these things that
make them
DEFINE SIGNIFICANCE BY NATURE. Why are
they special?
>> Well, that's not exact
>> because of subjective metrics or
objective metrics.
>> Both.
>> Oh, okay. So then you tell me I'm debate
broing, but you're also debate broing.
>> You disagree with that?
>> If you're going to concede to that,
that's ridiculous, bro. That's just
>> So just to be clear, any structure that
we see is unique is equally significant.
>> That's your argument.
>> What?
>> There are multiple pyramid is equally
significant.
>> No, wait, wait, wait. There are multiple
pyramids, right?
>> Correct.
>> Great pyramids of the
>> But there are multiple, right?
>> YEAH.
>> OKAY. BY DEFINITION, THEY'RE NOT THE
MOST UNIQUE THEN. SO, IF I COULD FIND A
STRUCTURE THAT'S 4 foot tall and let me
finish that Native Americans made here
and there's only one of it. Well, it's
unique. So, therefore, IF IT'S PURELY
ABOUT OBJECTIVITY, THAT'S more unique
than the pyramids. Therefore, it's more
significant. Correct?
YOU WOULD SAY NO BECAUSE THERE'S OTHER
FACTORS SUCH AS THE grandio scale.
>> Oh, there are other factors.
>> Or there's OTHER FACTORS LIKE SUBJECTIVE
HOW MUCH IT MEANS TO THE CULTURE, how
much it means to the history.
>> We don't give a [__] about that, dude.
We don't give a [__] about that. That's
not why it's got importance. That's not
It's not important because of sub Dude,
you're being If you say the pyramids are
important because of subjective metrics,
dude, really now. Come on now. We're
just being ridiculous, bro. What's the
largest pyramid in the world?
>> How am I meant to What? How does that
even answer the question, bro?
>> What is the largest pyramid of the
world?
>> I don't know.
>> What's the most important pyramid in the
world? The most significant one?
>> Probably the Great Pyramid of Giza.
>> Okay.
Great pyramid of Giza, right? Also the
largest. Okay. I don't think so. Right.
I think when people if you ask people
right what's the greatest pyramids in
the world they would say the Egyptian
pyramids
you don't dis you you disagree
that's what people THINK OF IF YOU SAID
PYRAMID GUARANTEED PEOPLE WERE THINKING
OF THOSE in Egypt right they thinking of
Giza first but Giza is bigger it's MORE
UNIQUE WHY WHY ARE THEY THINKING OF the
Egyptian pyramids first because of
subjective reasons right
>> oh really it's not about the stones that
you can't for the credit card in the
alignment. Oh, okay. Okay. That's
because dude, this this is bad. This is
this this is bad.
>> I WANT YOU TO TELL I AM TELLING YOU THAT
IT IS NOT EXCLUSIVELY ABOUT OBJECTIVE
REASONS. THERE ARE ALSO SUBJECTIVE
REASONS.
>> YOU DISAGREE. YOU'RE SAYING, "NOPE,
>> what makes them special is not the
subjective reasons. It's the objective
reasons."
>> That's not true. There are subjective
reasons as well, dude.
THERE ARE SUBJECTIVE REASONS AS IF IT'S
JUST ABOUT THE OBJECTIVE REASONS. WHY
ISN'T Giza more famous?
It's bigger.
Why isn't it more famous?
>> So, you're giving me objective reasons
for why you I don't hear subjective
reasons. What's the subjective reasons?
>> Can you tell me what those are?
>> Yes. Because culture has shown us all
throughout the 21st century, the 20th
and 21st century, it's represented these
Egyptian pyramids over and over. Even on
the back of our [__] dollar bills,
there are representations of the
Egyptian pyramids.
>> Why?
>> Because of subjective reasons,
>> both subjective and objective.
>> OKAY, COOL.
>> OKAY. WHY IS THE PYRAMID ON THE BACK OF
THE DOLLAR INSTEAD of some other great
structure?
>> Because it's an architectural marvel of
the world. THAT'S
>> THE BEST THE GREATEST EVER right
>> is why subjectively or objectively
>> it is both there is the IMPRESSIVE
NATURE OF IT AND there were people that
felt that it had some sort of
significance for a subjective reason
>> THIS IS TRUE WHY is the eagle why is the
eagle the national bird of the United
States
because objective reasons OF HOW
IMPRESSIVE AN EAGLE IS BUT ALSO BECAUSE
OF SUBJECTIVE REASONS because the PEOPLE
THAT WERE DECIDING THESE THOUGHT THAT
THIS WAS THEIR FAVORITE BIRD THAT
REPRESENTED SOMETHING.
>> Not not not the the weight of the
stones, the construction, the the
>> How much did the stones weigh the age of
them? No, that that's not why that's how
much did the stones weigh in Giza?
>> What's the age of the Giza pyramid? You
know,
>> 10 tons, 15 tons.
>> You don't know. You're talking out your
ass. If I show you that the stones
weighed MORE IN GIZA AND IT'S bigger and
it's older, would you think
>> this has nothing to do with the
argument?
>> Yes, it does. The argument is
>> No, you're just saying things to say
things. That's not true. If you're
saying the reason that the Egyptian
pyramids are the are the most known is
because they're the MOST IMPRESSIVE.
>> WELL, THEY'RE NOT THE BIGGEST and if
they're not the oldest and if the stones
didn't weigh the most, then they're not
THE MOST IMPRESSIVE. SO, WHY ARE THEY
THE MOST KNOWN?
>> WELL, they they do meet criteria that
makes them the top of the list on
objective metrics, not they're not
important because of subjective reason.
Give me the objective reason that it's
>> you just asking why why why why is not
an argument for why.
>> And uh real quick I just want to I just
want to do a time check for you guys.
It's another hour in. So I just want to
let
>> we wrap up in like 20 minutes like at 2
a.m. I'm fine with that.
>> Yeah. You want to
>> Rob, you're beast though, dude. You're
beast. I have to pee over here. We're
like four and a half hours in. I HAVEN'T
>> LISTEN, I I WANT TO ANSWER THIS
QUESTION. IF YOU'RE RIGHT that it's
purely objective and it has nothing to
do with subjectivity and it's not the
top and it's not the heavy so important
because of subjectivity.
>> WHAT'S IT IS WHAT I'M telling you IS
THIS IS YOU'RE LOOKING AT IT BINARY.
THIS IS HOW YOU LOOK AT EVERYTHING.
EVERYTHING IS EITHER VALUED 100% BECAUSE
OF OBJECTIVITY OR 100% BECAUSE OF
SUBJECTIVITY. AND IT'S IMPOSSIBLE THAT
IT'S A COMBINATION OF THE TWO.
THEREFORE, ANYTHING WE PUT SIGNIFICANCE
ON HAS TO 100% BE OBJECTIVITY. SO IN
THAT SENSE THEN I'LL SAY WELL THEN THE
SONG THAT IS THE TOP SELLING SONG EVERY
YEAR IS OBJECTIVELY THE BEST SONG.
THAT'S IT. IT'S OBJECTIVELY THE BEST.
THAT'S THE ONLY EXPLANATION. There is no
reason that it WOULD BE THE MOST POPULAR
UNLESS IT'S OBJECTIVELY THE BEST. AND
YOU INTUITIVELY ARE GOING TO SAY, "WELL,
THAT'S ABSURD. It could have been
pushed."
>> The pyramids are objectively the great
pyramids of Giza. Objectively the
[__] great pyramids of Giza, my dude.
You can [__] argue this subjective
emotional nonsense, but I would This is
debate broing right now because you're
not conceding on something very obvious.
>> Wait a minute.
>> You're doing the [__] trans women or
women argument right now and it's
ridiculous, dude.
>> Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait,
wait, wait, wait, wait. Where is the
Great Pyramid of Giza?
>> In Egypt.
>> Okay, let me let me check this.
There's a reason it's one of the seven
wonders of the world and it's not
subjective reasons, dude. Okay.
Like you could have just conceded this,
dude.
>> Okay. So, the great pyramid of Giza is
in Egypt. The biggest pyramid in the
world, I believe, is the Great Pyramid
of Cholula.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah. Cholula is in in southern southern
>> in Mexico. Okay. Yes.
>> If it's the biggest, why isn't it the
most known?
>> Because of its its construction is not
as as significant as the great pyramids
of Giza.
>> In what sense?
>> Architecturally. Objective.
>> Architectural objective metrics
>> like such as
>> stones that were carved perfectly. There
you go.
>> Okay.
>> Weight of stones.
>> Where they were moved from, how they
were constructed. If a person carry on
>> if a PERSON WAS TO SAY I THINK THE MOST
AGE
>> I think the most impressive pyramid
>> the Mexican pyramids are 2,000 years old
thousands if a person was to say I think
the most impressive pyramid's the
largest one. Why would they be wrong?
>> Dude,
>> CAN YOU EXPLAIN WHY WHY IS THAT WHY IS
THAT INTERPRETATION WRONG?
then their subjective interpretation cuz
I don't give a [__] about people's
opinions. I care about objectivity.
>> IT'S NOT AN OPINION. I'M ASKING you if
THEY SAY THE OBJECTIVE METRIC I'M USING
TO DECIDE the greatest pyramid is the
biggest one. It's Cholulu.
Why are they wrong? They're using
objectivity. That's an objective. Your
opinion is cute, but how big a structure
is has nothing to do with its
architectural complexity.
>> WHY WHY IS ARCHITECTURAL WHY IS THAT A
STANDARD that we should take over
largeness?
>> I don't know. For subjective people,
they might not give a [__] about nothing
important. They might say men or women.
I don't know. I don't know why they do
things, Rob. I don't know why they do
things.
>> But I know why objectively the one is
more important.
>> Why?
>> Age, size of dude, do I got to repeat my
keep repeating myself. You bring up
another reason. It's not the biggest.
>> Why is age Why is age more important
than
>> Why is biggest important, Rob?
>> I think that biggest stands out as a
metric that we could see when it talks
about structures. the grandness of it.
The biggest is something that we often
talk about and it's easy to identify and
demarcate.
>> Why is that important?
>> Because I think that it's talks about
the massive achievements of humans.
>> And why is architectural soundness
important? Same thing. Your subjective
interpretation. You have no reason
>> in architecture. Architectural soundness
is pretty [__] important. Otherwise,
the structure doesn't hold.
>> And yet the Cholula pyramid's still
holding.
>> It probably has structural integrity,
doesn't it?
>> Okay, great. So then explain to me again
why we should prefer the structural
integrity of the Giza pyramid over
Cholula when architecture we have all
>> you have no objective reason why that
should be preferred
>> when discussing the greatest pyramid
>> I do construction methods the the weight
of the stones the construction is
rudimentary of Cholula um the the stones
that were used the materials that were
used the complexity of the underground
cabins the whole integral internal
structure of the building is more
impressive. Give me the objective reason
why age is more impressive. All of that
give me the objective reason why
>> all of that Jesus was in that area
objective give me THE OBJECTIVE METRIC
WHY THAT'S MORE IMPORTANT than size. GO
AHEAD. OBJECTIVE as in not subjective
NOT YOUR INTERPRETATION LITERALLY
OBJECTIVE. GO AHEAD. GIVE ME THE
OBJECTIVE REASON.
>> Did you hear what I just said?
>> You gave a bunch of reasons as to your
interpretation why those things are more
important. You have
>> Did I give you objective matrix or
subjective matrix?
>> I GAVE YOU AN OBJECTIVE METRIC THAT
CHOLULA is the largest. THAT'S WAS THAT
REAL QUICK. IS THAT OBJECTIVE or
subjective?
>> Is that objective?
>> That's objective, right?
>> Okay, I win then. It's the more
impressive pyramid.
>> DID I NOT JUST USE OBJECTIVITY?
Why are you laughing?
>> So one beats multiple. Is that is that
your argument? I
>> one objective matrix beats multiple
objective matrix.
>> I mean I think that if this metric is
the most important then yes
>> one matrix beats multiple of matrix.
>> Yes. I think if this one's the most
important then yes.
All right. So not the complexity of the
structure, how it was quarried, the the
the physical weight of the building
material used, its precision, its
geometric accuracy, its star alignment,
the significant this the
>> You have no reason. You have no age is
the most important, Rob. Age is the most
important.
>> You have no reason to doing what you're
doing. Age is the most important.
>> Okay. So then if I find something older
than the Great Pyramids of Giza, then
that's objectively more impressive.
Correct.
What?
>> If you're saying age is the most
IMPORTANT THING THAT IF I FIND A
STRUCTURE THAT IS OLDER THAN THE GREAT
Pyramid of Giza, then that's more
impressive. Correct.
>> Yeah. Goateep is older. It's multiple
factors. You're arguing for one factor
determines it.
>> No, no, no. You're arguing one factor.
I'm telling you multiple factors. What
I've been telling you the whole night.
Multiple factors.
>> Why is it Why is it not Why is it not
one of the great the seven great wonders
of the world? subjective. It's
subjective in your interpretation.
>> Is it objectively one of the great
wonders of the world?
>> The great wonders of the world is a
human construct of things that have been
named.
>> Is it an Is it objectively one of the
great wonders of the world?
>> YES. IS CHOLULU OBJECTIVELY the largest?
>> Okay, that makes it the best. That makes
it the best.
>> Is Cholulu Is Cholulu the B the largest
pyramid? Objectively,
>> I win mine. It's not one of the seven
wonders of the world. Is Cholulu?
>> No. Humans have not decided that it's
one of the seven ones.
>> CHAL OH, SO NOW YOU DENY REALITY. IS
CHOLULU objectively the largest pyramid
by volume?
>> Why does that matter? Tell me why.
>> Cholulu. Is Cholulu OBJECTIVELY THE
LARGEST PYRAMID by volume?
>> Yes. WHY DOES THAT MATTER?
>> THAT'S I WIN THEN. THEN IT'S OBJECTIVELY
TRUE.
>> DUDE, this is ridiculous what you're
doing.
>> What's ridiculous is that it's
illustrating the point. What's
illustrating? IT'S ILLUSTRATING THE
POINT. JUST BECAUSE YOU SAY THAT WE
EVALUATE things through objective
metrics, right, doesn't mean that the
way you apply them is objective. A
person could say, TO ME, WHAT I VIEW AS
THE MOST IMPRESSIVE things with the
pyramids is which ONE IS THE BIGGEST.
THEREFORE, TO ME, I FEEL THAT CHOLULU IS
THE BEST. AND YOU MIGHT SAY, I DISAGREE.
I think that OTHER THINGS LIKE STONE
CUTOUTS AND AGE of pyramids is more
important. SO SUBJECTIVELY TO ME THE
GREATEST PYRAMID is Giza. Just
>> did I say that?
>> Yes. You said there a litany of factors.
>> No, no, no, no, no. So you you're not
listening. My my thing was because of
multiple metrics make something better.
You're arguing for one metric makes
something better.
>> That's not true. There's other metrics
that I could say.
>> What's your other metrics for Cholula,
Rob? Let's hear it then.
>> You said multiple.
>> Oh, sure. I could say I could say all
kinds of things. Like for example, I
COULD SAY I COULD SAY THE SOCIETY WASN'T
AS organized in Egypt. And so for them
to be able to come together like this
without slave labor was even more
impressive. I COULD SAY THAT THE
TEMPERATURE and the sort of jungle type
environment made IT FAR MORE DIFFICULT
TO HAUL STONE TO HAVE TO GO THROUGH ALL
THIS VOILAGE that you wouldn't need in
Egypt. I COULD SAY THAT THERE WERE OTHER
PYRAMIDS in the area in Egypt whole
>> that were similar that were similar in
grandeur and when it came to that area
of the world that was sort of uh adding
MORE ANCIENT CIVILIZATION THAT WASN'T AS
IMPRESSIVE AS WE SAW WITH CHOLULU. I
COULD SAY THAT WE KNOW MORE and there's
about the Egyptian PYRAMIDS AND CHOLULU.
THERE'S MORE MYSTERY BECAUSE THERE'S
THINGS LIKE Cholulu and other pyramids
and other structures IN THE AREA THAT
seem to come from cultures that WE
[__] KNOW ALMOST NOTHING ABOUT AS
OPPOSED TO EGYPT WHICH WE KNOW A LOT
ABOUT. I THINK ALL THOSE METRICS ARE
MORE IMPORTANT. NOW WHAT? WHO'S RIGHT?
THOSE ARE OBJECTIVE TRUTHS.
>> YEAH. Do you know what's funny? It's
funny how the the your subjective
opinion doesn't mean [__] cuz it's still
not one of the great wonders of the
world, is it? The great wonder OF THE
WORLD'S SUBJECTIVE, YOU [__] IDIOT.
>> OH. OH, so there's not seven.
>> IT'S SUBJECTIVE IN WHICH ONES THEY
CHOSE.
>> Why did they choose them?
>> BECAUSE THEY THOUGHT THAT THOSE WERE THE
MOST
>> SUBJECTIVE. DO I NEED TO DO I must I
pull up why they chose them? Are you
saying it's subjective how they chose
them? I pull it off.
>> Oh my god. I can't. YOU'RE APPEALING TO
AUTHORITY. YOU'RE LIKE BECAUSE A BUNCH
OF PEOPLE SAID THESE ARE THE MOST SEVEN
IMPRESSIVE STRUCTURES. then self.
>> How do how do we know the size of
something if we don't appeal to an
authority that measured it? Rob,
>> because a measurement is DIFFERENT THAN
SOMEONE'S OPINION. ONE IS AN OBJECTIVE
TRUTH, THE OTHER IS SUBJECTIVE. I COULD
MEASURE AND SEE THAT'S
>> you appeal to somebody that measured
something.
>> I could measure it myself.
>> Oh, okay. Okay. So, let me know when you
did that. But till then, you appealed to
the person that measured it a so by the
same authority, you know, have you ever
been to the great pyramids of Giza?
No. How does that matter?
>> Have you ever How do you EVEN KNOW THEY
EXIST? YOU'RE APPEALING TO AN AUTHORITY
THAT SOMEONE TOOK that could have all
BEEN FAKED. THE SIZE OF IT, THE AGE OF
IT, ALL OF IT COULD be faked.
>> Of what? Of the pyramids of it's all
fake.
>> OF THESE OF EVERYTHING THAT YOU'VE NEVER
BEEN TO.
>> Have you been to Jalula?
>> No. I'M SAYING THAT THERE'S A
FUNDAMENTAL DIFFERENCE THAT WHAT YOU I'M
SAYING THERE ARE OBJECTIVE THINGS THAT
ARE OBJECTIVELY MEASURABLE. I COULD
MEASURE THROUGH A THERMOMETER what the
temperature IS OUTSIDE. I COULD MEASURE
THROUGH A TAPE MEASURE HOW TALL MY ROOF
IS. I COULD MEASURE THROUGH A
SPEEDOMETER HOW FAST MY CAR IS DRIVING.
THAT'S DIFFERENT THAN SAYING CAR AND
DRIVER SAID MY CAR IS THE COOLEST. OH,
WELL THAT'S EQUALLY OBJECTIVE. THE FACT
THAT YOU'RE DRIVING 63 MPH RIGHT NOW,
THAT'S RELYING ON TRUSTING THAT SOME
EXPERT created your vehicle with A
WORKING SPEEDOMETER. SO THAT'S
SUBJECTIVE JUST LIKE IT'S SUBJECTIVE
THAT SAYS CAR AND DRIVER SAYS IT'S THE
BEST CAR. You see the difference?
>> So the it's there's actually it seems
like there's multiple objective metrics
how they determine these things. Huh.
Now that I'm looking it up, do you want
me to list them for you?
>> What what do you want to Sure. On what
>> do you do? You do you think that things
just arbitrarily get chosen
subjectively? because that's kind of
your argument you're making that we
should work off of one metric
subjectively to determine to determine
the value of things. And I'm telling you
that we the the reasoning behind why
humans determine the value of things
over multiple metrics. The same way with
the pyramids being more exceptional in
architectural skill than than the Jula
pyramids.
>> I can't believe I have to explain this.
The entire debate is this. you saying
that art, WE SHOULD DEFINE art based on
pure objectivity.
And then I'm like, okay, what are those
objective measures? And you're like,
well, for example, if we took painting,
line theory, color theory, AND ONLY THE
TOP 5 TO 10% OF THINGS THAT utilize that
in paintings would be considered art.
The rest of them could be considered
paintings, but we wouldn't consider them
art. AND I SAY THE PROBLEM IS EVEN IF WE
ACCEPT THAT these are objective metrics,
you're still applying them subjectively,
right? And then we use the EXAMPLE OF
THE PYRAMIDS. I THINK CHOLULU IS THE
COOLEST pyramid because objectively it's
the biggest.
>> You stating a subjective opinion doesn't
do nothing to architectural skill level.
>> OBJECTIVELY, IS CHOLULU THE BIGGEST,
>> ROB? Is it more complex than the
pyramids of Giza? Is it more complex
than the pyramids of Giza? Are we going
to do this the whole night?
>> Your interpretation of complexity being
MORE IMPORTANT THAN SIZE IS SUBJECTIVE.
YOU [__] IDIOT. YOU [__] [__]
THAT'S MY EXACT
>> OKAY. Everything is subjective.
Everything subjective then, right?
>> THAT'S THE POINT. THAT'S WHY I'M USING
YOU KEEP MAKING my point over and over
and over.
>> How we determine objectivity is over
multiple factors, not just one BECAUSE
YOU CHOOSE ONE.
>> THAT'S NOT TRUE. It's multiple that
gives us an answer.
>> The idea THAT YOU SAY THAT IT'S
MULTIPLE.
>> It's not true. Okay.
>> It is in itself subjective.
For example,
>> it's objective when I based it on
multiple objectives.
>> Let me let ME EXPLAIN THIS, RIGHT? WHAT
IF I SAID that we could theoretically
say it WAS OBJECTIVE USING COLOR THEORY,
LINE THEORY, AND A bunch of this [__]
LET'S SAY THERE ARE SEVEN METRICS LIKE
THAT. AND I POINT TO A PAINTING AND SAY
IN every in six of these seven metrics
it's better THAN THE MONA LISA, BUT IT'S
SO BAD IN THAT SEVENTH METRIC THAT WE
LAUGH AT THIS PIECE. WOULD YOU SAY NOPE,
IT HAS TO BE BETTER THAN THE MONA LISA
BECAUSE IT'S BETTER IN SIX OUT OF THE
SEVEN METRICS.
>> You're not going to get out of this. You
think multiple objective metrics is is
less important than one. You think
multiple objective metrics is less
important than one?
>> Why can't you answer THE QUESTION?
>> YOU CAN'T do math clearly.
>> The question that I just gave you.
Oh [__] What's the question that I just
gave you? Hope everything's all right.
>> Oh, was that was that in his background
or something? Oh
>> yeah, I think.
>> Okay.
>> Okay. Sound like I thought my computer
was dead.
>> Sorry. My my compressor my compressor
refold.
>> Okay. I was like, wait a minute. praise.
>> Why can't you answer that question?
>> Sorry, what's the question?
>> What if if we SAY THERE ARE SEVEN
METRICS TO WHAT makes a good painting
and here's this no-name painting over
here THAT IN SIX OUT OF THE SEVEN
metrics is slightly better than the Mona
Lisa, but in the seventh it's so bad you
would still SAY NOPE, IT'S BETTER THAN
THE MONA LISA BECAUSE SIX IS MORE THAN
ONE AND it's better in six metrics.
Right?
I'm telling you multiple objective
metrics is one argument for why can't
you answer no cuz you're running from
the the one that you were you were
struggling with cuz you were saying
nonsense.
>> Why can't you answer you're not
answering my original question.
>> I AM ANSWERING YOUR QUESTION. THE ANSWER
TO YOUR QUESTION IS IT may be that
multiple metrics being more important
than one thing is important. It may not
be. For example, IF IT'S ONLY 1% BETTER
IN FIVE METRICS, BUT THE OTHER IS 90%
BETTER IN A DIFFERENT METRIC, THEN I
MIGHT SAY THE ONE METRIC'S MORE
IMPORTANT THAN THE other four or five
metrics.
>> You're disagreeing. You're just
appealing to absurdity right now. That's
what you're doing. You're just
>> I'm not I'm not appealing to it.
>> Seven tangible objective multiple not
seven multiple objective metrics. You
are saying that one will beat multiple
objective metrics.
>> I I AM SAYING THAT JUST BECAUSE THERE IS
MULTIPLE OF SOMETHING DOESN'T
NECESSARILY MEAN THAT SUBJECTIVELY WE
WOULD say it's better. Again, let's go
to the area of athletics. I could say we
could compare we could compare Tom Brady
TO MICHAEL VIC AND I COULD SAY IN EVERY
METRIC OTHER than throwing accuracy in
clutch, Michael Vic's better. He's
faster. He's stronger. He's taller. He's
more athletic. He He He could take a
bigger hit. ALL THOSE METRICS. AND YET
THE ONE METRIC THAT TOM BRADY'S BETTER
AT, HE'S SO MUCH BETTER THAN clearly
makes him the HALL OF FAME BEST
QUARTERBACK EVER. AND YOU WOULD SAY,
"NO, ROB. NO. MICHAEL VIC'S BETTER AT
MULTIPLE METRICS AS OPPOSED TO JUST
ONE." DO YOU SEE THE STUPIDITY of this?
>> It's subjective.
>> You are you you are claiming Well, you
are claiming that these things are not
important. You would have to display
that. Just saying it is not an argument.
Saying that it could be the case is not
saying that this is the case in this
scenario. You understand that?
>> It has nothing to do with saying it's
the case in this.
>> You're saying multiple metrics are
insignificant. You would have to display
that. Saying that it is is not an
argument.
>> No. Here's what I have to say. I HAVE TO
SHOW THAT THERE ARE SITUATIONS that
prove that the rule you're saying isn't
always the rule, which proves that the
rule you're using IS SUBJECTIVE. IF IT
WAS OBJECTIVE, IT WOULD ALWAYS BE THE
CASE. IF I COULD IN THIS case or in
other case,
>> in any case, YOUR ARGUMENT IS
>> IN ANY CASE. Your argument IS WE COULD
OBJECTIVELY DETERMINE WHAT'S THE TOP 5
TO 10% OF SOMETHING. I.E. IF WE GO TO
THE PYRAMIDS, WE COULD OBJECTIVELY
DETERMINE WHICH IS THE best and MOST
IMPRESSIVE PYRAMID. I SAY NO, NOT
NECESSARILY. I COULD SAY FOR EXAMPLE
THAT THE PYRAMID THAT'S THE BIGGEST, I
SAY THAT'S THE MOST IMPRESSIVE METRIC IS
WHICH ONE'S THE IMPORTANT. YOU SAY NO.
THAT'S ONLY
YOU SAY NO. THAT'S ONLY ONE CRITERIA
WHERE I HAVE MULTIPLE CRITERIA. I SAY
THE POINT I'M ILLUSTRATING IS THAT
SOMETIMES ONE CRITERIA CAN be important
THAN MULTIPLE WHICH PROVES THAT YOU'RE
NOT TALKING ABOUT SOMETHING THAT'S
OBJECTIVE. YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT
SOMETHING THAT'S SUBJECTIVE HERE. LIKE
FOR EXAMPLE, HOW MANY OBJECT? GIVE ME
THE REASONS RIGHT NOW. LIST THEM. The
reasons that the Giza pyramids more
impressive than Cholulu. Go ahead,
>> Rob. I gave you the weight of the stone,
the complexity of the stone of the
masonry. No, wait, wait, WAIT, WAIT,
WAIT. SLOW DOWN. I WANT TO COUNT.
Go ahead. Give me the reasons.
>> Complexity of the masonry work. Okay.
Weight of stones.
>> Distance of stones moved from quaries.
Um the
>> multiple factors on the stones.
>> Okay.
>> Okay. The age the age the construction
methods
>> that a lot of this [__] subjective
construction method
>> dude it's not. We can say one
construction method is more complicated
than another, can we not?
>> What was the construction meth method
used with Cholulu?
>> Small small stones stacked on each
other.
>> Okay, so you got five anymore.
>> You you understand that that I can go
into the
>> bush. Here we go. I will GO WITH UH
HERE'S WHY Cholulu is more important. Uh
the volume of it bigger, THE SIZE OF THE
BASE IS BIGGER, THE HEIGHT OF IT BIGGER,
the scale of the human effort. It took
over a thousand years. So that's more of
a human effort. The fact that it was
hidden in plain sight, which makes it
like this unseen treasure, which is
better. The cultural depth. It wasn't
just one culture. It was culture after
culture after culture to build on it.
THAT'S SIX. I HAVE MORE THAN FIVE. I
WIN.
>> You acknowledge now Cholulu is a better
pyramid.
>> It's nice. It's nice that you Google
that.
>> In fact, IN FACT, WAIT A MINUTE.
SHOULDN'T THAT MEAN THAT NOW IT'S one of
the seven wonders? REPLACES GIZA CUZ IT
HAS SIX INSTEAD OF FIVE,
>> RIGHT?
>> UM, by the way, you're
>> well, you're incorrect because the Great
Pyramid's taller. There's multiple
because you're going, you can't mention
the other ones, the astronomical
alignment, all of these things. You know
what? I can also Google things and read
off of Google. I was doing it off the
top of my head. Are we going to start
googling things now to make to make our
shitty arguments?
>> Doesn't matter. The point is WHAT YOU'RE
USING IS SUBJECTIVE METRICS.
You're you're literally It's so absurd
THAT YOU'RE JUST LIKE IF WE SAY YOU'RE
OBJECT
>> THE HEIGHT of something is subjective.
Are you saying the height and the weight
of things are subjective?
>> You are saying what you attribute as
things are subjective because that's
what humans do.
>> No, maybe I can help bridge a gap here.
If I could help try to bridge a gap
here. What I think Rob is saying is like
he's not saying that that is subjective.
He's saying choosing that as a as a um a
requirement necessary to be considered
art is what is subjective. Like you guys
brought this up earlier. I I I went and
searched it up to to I was going to pull
it up because you guys were talking
about it like the the banana, right? Um
taped to the wall. It's uh it's
objectively a banana. All right. You
guys would obviously agree that's
objectively a banana and objectively a
piece of tape. But what what makes that
objectively matter? And that's what Rob
is saying. Rob is saying subjectively
this is art to somebody. So why why is
that objectively not art? Maybe that
will help bridge this gap. I'm saying is
like you you for example let's say that
we could come up with objective things
that a human structure would be
impressive and let's say we
theoretically agree on four things right
size height uh engineering necessary and
age right and let's say that we are
looking at something like the great
pyramid of Giza and deciding whether or
not it's more impressive than say the
empire state building. Now, I I don't
know, but I'm assuming the Empire State
Building is taller, has more volume,
right? You might say, "Wow, the
engineering of creating automobiles and
cranes AND ALL THAT [__] that's
technically a bigger ENGINEERING FEAT."
AND YET, THE FACT THAT GIZA IS SO OLD
AND IT STANDS OUT AS A STRUCTURE AT ITS
TIME THAT IS SO DIFFERENT. WHEREAS THE
EMPIRE STATE BUILDING, WE COULD SEE
OTHER SKYSCRAPERS AROUND. And your
response, your response WOULD BE LIKE,
"YEAH, BUT THE EMPIRE STATE BUILDING
WINS THREE OUT OF THE FOUR METRICS. SO
THEREFORE, it's the most impressive."
>> Rob, but you understand with the what
makes the pyramids of Giza distinct is
that it cannot be replicated. Right now,
we can replicate the Empire State
Building in Cholula.
>> But again, now you're saying that
there's one metric that's most
important. SO THEN IF I FIND AN OLDER
STRUCTURE, let me finish. Let me finish.
So if I then find something that many
other metrics more metrics is more
IMPRESSIVE IF I FIND A STRUCTURE OLDER
THAN GIZA THAT'S bigger
that is older that all of these things
right heavier all this [__] BUT WE COULD
REPLICATE IT NOW I WOULD SAY AH BUT SEE
CHRIS HERE'S WHY YOU'RE WRONG BECAUSE I
HAVE MULTIPLE METRICS AND YOU ONLY HAVE
ONE THE INABILITY to replicate
would you admit THAT I'M RIGHT THEN IF I
HAVE ALL THESE OTHER OBJECTIVES METRICS,
YOU WOULD SAY, "YOU'RE RIGHT, ROB. THE
ABILITY to replicate's ONLY ONE METRIC."
OR WOULD YOU SAY, "NO, I THINK THE
INABILITY TO REPLICATE IS A FAR MORE
important objective metric.
>> Yes, one of that it would be higher
order because it cannot be replicated.
So there is criteria to these things,
but that's based on objectivity and not
sub." So then your entire your entire
spiel about bigger number my number is
bigger than one therefore I'm right. I
was proving to you which you now concede
that's not necessarily the case
>> conceding ANYTHING DUDE.
>> YES THAT'S A CONCESSION
>> a ridiculous argument. I understand what
you're trying to say but you gave this
specific argument. I SAID IF WE HAVE
SEVEN CRITERIA FOR WHAT makes a good
PAINTING AND IN SIX OF THOSE THIS
NO-NAME PAINTER DOES SOMETHING THAT'S
BETTER HAS BETTER COLOR THEORY HAS
BETTER LINE THEORY. BUT IN ONE OF THE
SEVEN, IT'S SO BAD.
WOULD THAT MAKE IT BETTER THAN THE MONA
LISA? NO. WE WOULD SAY EVEN THOUGH IT
WINS SIX OUT OF THE SEVEN METRICS, THE
POINT THAT I'M TRYING TO make with all
of this is you could use objective
criteria, but determining whether or not
that makes it the top five or 10% WHICH
YOU'RE SAYING IS necessary to be
qualified as art is subjective.
>> Rob, I understand what we what we give
weight to can be done subjectively. And
you keep making this argument but like
I'm telling you something like like the
complexity of replication is not a
subjective argument towards why it's
important. It becomes because of the the
the actual ability or the rarity of
that. Do you understand that that does
carry more weight?
>> I understand in your opinion it
subjectively carries more weight and
again what you keep saying is
>> I get it. I get it. I understand what
you keep saying is this. You're like,
"ISN'T THIS AN OBJECTIVE METRIC?"
ARGUABLY, NO. RIGHT? Replicability isn't
an objective is like height. People
could disagree on how easy it would be
to replicate something. One person might
say, "I think the way they did it was X
and it would be
>> Cannot. Not difficulty. Cannot."
>> I disagree. We could build the pyramids
if we wanted.
>> OKAY.
>> YOU DISAGREE. YOU DON'T THINK WITH
MODERN TECHNOLOGY WE COULD DO IT?
>> All right. If he's
>> Yes or no? Do you think with modern
technology
>> I I want you to tell me
>> according to the experts no because
>> I disagree
they're absolutely wrong. What the
experts would say is we can't replicate
it in the way they did it.
>> We can't DO THAT.
>> BUT THEY absolutely could. THEY COULD
BUILD THE PYRAMIDS. THEY COULD cut stone
build it like of course
>> no no objective matrix.
>> Show me the Show me the expert. Okay.
You made the I'll eat crow. SHOW ME THE
EXPERT THAT SAYS IT IS physically
impossible for us to create pyramids
like Giza. Go ahead.
>> AND I'LL BET WHAT THEY SAY IS WE
WOULDN'T BE ABLE TO HAVE THE MANPOWER
PUBLIC. BUT I BET WITH MACHINES WE COULD
do it.
Sorry, my laptop is [__] I'm a broke
African. It's the keys are falling out.
Um, replicating Draper is considered
nearly impossible due to the lack of
technology, but because of immense
logistics, financial and societal
constraints, building them requires
massive sustained investment, um, expert
craftsmen in heavy stone and specific
absolute authority to mobilize a
workforce factors that no longer exist.
Of
>> course, we could do it. It's just we
don't IT FINANCIALLY WOULDN'T MAKE
SENSE.
>> That's Dude, I mean, if you're going to
argue with what Google says, dude,
that's the whole point. you you're going
well I can just make subjective
arguments for everything and
>> OKAY HERE I'LL READ I'LL READ I'll read
what you're saying what you're doing
I'll read I'll read what it say
disingenuous I'll read what it says IF
YOU WANT TO ARGUE WITH IT GO AHEAD YES
absolutely the pyramids including the
great pyramid of visa and even larger
volume pyramid of Cholula could be built
with modern technology we do it faster
cheaper safer and likely more precisely
the short answer is we have the text
machines materials and engineering
knowhow to replicate or exceed them
easily the real barriers AREN'T
TECHNICAL THEY'RE ECONOMIC
MOTIVATIONAL AND PRACTICAL. IN OTHER
WORDS, it would cost a LOT OF MONEY. WE
DON'T HAVE A REASON, BUT ABSOLUTELY. IF
WE DECIDED WE WANTED TO build them, WE
COULD. ARE YOU GOING TO ARGUE with
Google?
>> OH, IT'S OKAY FOR YOU TO ARGUE WITH
GOOGLE. I SEE.
NOW, there you go.
>> I just want to real quick uh time check
cuz you wanted me to remind you guys
when it was two, we're 5 minutes past
two now. Do you guys uh did you guys
want to keep going or did you want to
wrap it up?
>> Chris, I'm having fun. And I got raided
over. I'm
>> I know. I'm having fun, too. You You You
Rob, you're really good at this. So, I
give you credit. I understand what
you're doing.
>> Let's talk about frustrating because you
because you're skilled.
>> Cranes, helicopters, excavators, and
trucks could move and place the 2.3
million blocks of Giza average 2.5 tons
each in a fraction of the time. No need
for endless ramps, sleds on wet sand, or
millions of man-hour. Concrete pouring
like Hoover Dam, which use similar
volume, would be far simpler and faster
than quarry cutting, transportating
individual limestone blocks. Embed
cooling pipes to handle heat from the
setting concrete, and you'd have a
monolithic structure in months and years
instead of decades or centuries.
Precision tools, lasers, GPS, drones,
computer modeling would achieve or beat
the Giza pyramid's famous alignment, the
true north of 3 to 60 of a degree, and
flatness without a sweat. Timeline
ancient Giza 10 to 20 years with two 20
TO 30,000 WORKERS. MODERN IT WOULD TAKE
likely 5 years or less WITH 1500
WORKERS. COST ROUGH MODERN ESTIMATES for
a Giza replicate would be 250 to 300
MILLION
UP TO 5 billion if sticking it to
quarried stone for authenticity. But if
we decided to pour concrete, it' BE MUCH
CHEAPER. THAT'S POCKET CHANGE compared
to modern projects such as Burj Khalifa,
which was 1.5 BILLION OR INFRASTRUCTURES
LIKE HIGHWAYS, BRIDGES, and the pity.
For context, the Panama Canal move
vastly more material with early 20th
century tech.
Now, YOU WERE SAYING IT SEEMS THAT YES,
WE ABSOLUTELY HAVE THE TECHNOLOGY.
>> YEAH. WELL,
>> OKAY. SO, IT'S REPLICATABLE. SO, THE ONE
ISSUE YOU SAID THAT WAS MOST IMPORTANT
NO LONGER EXISTS. IN FACT, it would BE
REPLICATABLE IN UNDER FIVE YEARS.
CHEAPER THAN WE DID THE PANAMA. NOW,
NOW, NOW WHAT? NOW IT'S not impressive.
Well, the thing is Okay, cool. So, but
it's still architecturally more
difficult to do than say Cholula. That's
the point.
>> Says who? IN SOME SENSES, YES, and
others, no. For example, did you know
this? Cholula was made of what's called
adobe BRICKS. THEY WERE CONSTRUCTED
PRIMARILY from millions of SUNDRIED
ADOBE BRICKS. ESTIMATES SUGGEST AROUND
100 million or more. It's lighter and
easier produced than Giza's limestone
blocks, but the sheer quantity and the
NEED TO MAINTAIN STRUCTURAL integrity
over layered additions over AND OVER
AGAIN SHOW A HIGHLY SOPHISTICATED
understanding of materials, EROSION
RESISTANCE, AND SEISMIC stability in the
more earthquake prone Cholula.
Hm.
NOW WHAT? THAT SEEMS WOW. IN DIFFERENT
WAYS, IT'S UNIQUELY ARCHITECTURALLY
CHALLENGING. HUNDREDS OF MILLIONS OF
INDIVIDUAL BRICKS IN AN AREA WHERE IT
HAD TO SUFFER EARTHQUAKES WHERE THEY
WERE BUILDING NOT JUST FOR 20 YEARS BUT
FOR HUNDREDS TO THOUSANDS OF YEARS
STACKING ON TOP MAINTAINING STRUCTURAL
INTEGRITY HUNDREDS OF MILLIONS OF
BRICKS.
Now what
I mean yeah like I dude I understand
your argument. I do understand your
argument saying that how we weight
objective criteria comes comes down to
some some subjective determinations of
which is valued over another. I do
understand
>> there you go. THAT'S EXACTLY MY POINT.
So for the people just tuning in the
question of we should only call
something art based on purely objective
metrics I basically have two arguments
against. The first is what we're dealing
with here. Even if we concede that the
metrics we should use are objective they
will be applied subjectively. It's
impossible for us to say what is THE TOP
5 TO 10% of art. He because correct me
if I'm wrong Chris, your argument is
that only the TOP 5 TO 10% OF WORKS in a
specific category should be considered
art. SO ONLY THE TOP 5 TO 10% of
paintings or the top five to 10% of
sculptures or the top five to 10 uh
architectural design should BE
CONSIDERED ART. MY CLAIM is yeah
>> that it would be difficult and he says
that we would rely on a panel of experts
that would use objectivity TO DETERMINE
THOSE AND WHAT I'M SAYING is it would be
impossible that even if we could say
here are the metrics we would use you
know for example painting the best color
theory the best line structure all of
this stuff right they would still
evaluate these metrics in a different
way oh Slayer t-shirt that's pretty
badass and like SO THAT'S NUMBER ONE I
THINK I'VE PROVEN THAT JUST LIKE THE THE
analogy that makes the most sense to me
is we could look at objective figures TO
DETERMINE WHO'S A better quarterback,
Joe Montana or Dan Marino. And you could
say objectively which one had more
touchdowns, which one had more Super
Bowls, WHICH ONE HAD MORE INTERCEPTIONS,
WHICH ONE HAD MORE YARDS. AND YET WE
DISAGREE WHEN LOOKING AT THOSE OBJECTIVE
MEASURES, which one makes them better.
>> That's the point.
>> I remember this is what I said. I mean,
I even said this at the start of the
debate. I understand that we
subjectively apply weight to things, but
ultimately what what you're saying is we
apply weight to the sub the the
objective nature to how we criticize
these things.
>> Well, I think NO BECAUSE I THINK THAT
the pyramid thing illustrates the second
point I have that often times what we
assume of objective isn't.
For example, you made the claim that the
Giza pyramids objectively was a harder
architectural feat. Well, that's not
necessarily THE CASE. YOU COULD SAY, I
BELIEVE THAT BECAUSE THE STONES were
heavier and it requires accuracy is one
of the things, right? Astronomical.
>> How do we compare the weight of those
stones versus the sheer amount of stones
100 million that were used in a far more
difficult to create the stones when it
came TO CHOLULA? WHICH ONE'S MORE
architecturally impressive?
Well, moving 60 ton stones way way
longer ago and moving small little
stones is obviously if you ask an
engineer what is more complicated.
Moving multiple little stones and then
going way further back in history and
moving 60 ton stones. An engineer
wouldn't give you a subjective answer.
So they would say objectively moving 60
ton stones thousands of years and then
thousands of years later moving a
buttload of small little stones is not
as as from an architectural stance as
complicated.
I would say that I would say that it's
not necessarily that simple objectively,
right? Like for example, we don't just
say that the weight of something is what
makes it more impressive, right? You may
say, for example, that a person who's
like carries [__] 300 lb, 20 feet,
right, is a far more impressive feat
than someone stacking toothpicks. But
what if I told you the toothpicks that
were stacked were 500 billion? YOU'D
SAY, "HOLY [__] THE SHEER SCALE of
that." So it's not as simple AS YOU'RE
SAYING, BUT IF WE TAKE IT TO AN EVEN
more like talking specifically about art
and we take it to something like music,
it's clear that there is not an
objective rationale for a lot of this
[__] as is illustrated by the following
point. You say that there are several
metrics that we should use that are
objective such as rhythm. We know if a
song has good RHYTHM OR NOT. MY
interpretation is though, I don't think
that that's necessarily objective,
right? For example, if you took the top
five drummers alive right now and said,
"Tell me the song that has the best
rhythm," you'd probably get five
different answers. Well, that can't be
true. If it was objective, THEY WOULD
ALL SAY, "YEP, THIS ONE RIGHT HERE THAT
I JUST HEARD, THAT'S THE BEST RHYTHM."
BUT THAT WOULDN'T BE THE CASE AS YOU
know and as I KNOW WHICH SHOWS THAT EVEN
in metrics that we consider objective AH
WE LOOK AT THINGS LIKE PITCH, RHYTHM,
TONE, TAMBBER WHEN DECIDING WHICH IS THE
BEST song even the experts will disagree
on which is subjectively their favorite.
So even IN THE METRICS YOU'RE SAYING AH
BUT WE SHOULD ONLY USE OBJECTIVE
MEASURES. THEY'RE NOT OBJECTIVE. THESE
METRICS ARE NOT OBJECTIVE.
They're just not. And I DON'T KNOW HOW
YOU COULD GET AROUND THAT. You you are
telling me that these that that the
objective metrics you're using are
applied subjectively.
>> No, I'm saying that's one argument and
the other metric is what you're calling
objective metrics aren't necessarily
objective.
>> You're the application is subjective.
The metrics are not subjective.
>> Again, we went through this with the
example of pitch. I HAVE A GUITAR and I
have a guitar tuner. I hit G. I'm
playing A G NOTE. I COULD mathematically
get to a perfect G hypothetically or as
close as possible. THAT'S PITCH PERFECT.
AND NOW this string's perfect. AND THIS
STRINGS, ALL THE STRINGS ARE TUNED
PERFECTLY. THE PITCH IS PERFECT. BUT THE
WAY IN WHICH THOSE PERFECTLY PITCHED
notes are put together. And so if you
ask someone, show me the song that you
think uses pitch better than any other
song, YOU'RE GOING TO GET DIFFERENT
ANSWERS from every expert.
SO NO, THE IDEA OF SAYING WE USE A
MEASURE THAT'S OBJECTIVE SUCH AS PITCH
IN DETERMINING which is the best song or
the best songs. It's not that simple.
>> Subjectivity is going to object.
>> Yeah. No, I understand. We just argued
over the object of over objective
metrics towards things and then we
applied it subjectively into which we we
give value to. I understand
your argument.
>> No, no, no. That's the determination.
It's not even it's not even that
objective.
>> It's not that it's not that simple,
right? It's it's not even now you're
downselling.
>> We are not starting with subjective
metrics. We are working with objective
metrics and then subjectively choosing
which to give weight to correct or not.
>> It's not it's not just that right
because what we can
>> the metrics are objective.
>> No.
>> And then we are the application of how
we we give value to them is subjective.
>> No. COULD
IT BE HYPOTHETICALLY THAT a drummer is
offbeat, his rhythm's offbeat, right?
And that if you just heard this one
stanza, you'd say that drummer's it
sounds he's not in perfect 44 time right
now. Could that BE POSSIBLE AND STILL
SAY THAT IS excellent rhythm?
>> Yes.
>> Right. So then the metric of but wait A
MINUTE, OBJECTIVELY, WOULDN'T THAT be
worse THAN
IF IT'S OBJECTIVE, THEN THE QUARTER beat
would always be better.
>> Yes. Designated to to one metric. I I
explained this. Yes, we wouldn't use one
metric to define, but it's a combined
BUT EACH INDIVIDUAL METRIC that makes up
the totality of the metrics, the
subjective nature in each of them WOULD
BE TRUE, WHICH ACTUALLY COMPOUNDS THE
subjective nature. It could be that the
pitch on the guitar that's slightly OUT
OF KEY ADDS AMBIENCE. AND SO EVEN THOUGH
WE say the individual note of that pitch
is slightly off but it actually adds an
ominous nature to the song which is
>> we define that by the rhythmetic
structure of the song right
>> but WHO DEFINES WHICH IS BEST THERE'S NO
OBJECTIVE ANSWER
>> best is yes best is subjective I already
said this if we determine what is best
yes that comes down to subjective but we
use ob we use the objectives and then we
go which do we apply weight to and which
do
better than the other one.
>> It's not. But now when you're saying now
when you're saying we use objectives,
you're just saying an objective is THE
CONCEPT OF RHYTHM. THAT'S AN OBJECTIVE.
BUT IF I SAY THAT WE
>> IS it not objective? We we have time
signatures for these things. Is that not
objective?
>> Yes, there are objective time
signatures. But even within but even
within that scope, we can't even in a
short amount of time determine what is
the best rhythm. RIGHT. WHEN YOU SAY
WHEN YOU'RE SAYING WE HAVE objective
measures, right? It would be like saying
this like um [__] I'm I'm trying to
think of like an analogy. Um
who throws the best ball?
And it's like that's objective. We could
see who throws the that's wouldn't you
say? Yeah, that's an objective metric,
>> right?
>> You say who throws the fastest ball,
>> right? But that's not what we're saying
with rhythm.
What's great rhythm? define it.
>> Yeah. Well, rhythm is a combination of
of a couple of things, right?
>> Okay. Go ahead.
>> So, yes, if if we if we nail down on one
core thing, we it it becomes objective.
When we when we extrapolate into more
complicated things, then we have to work
off of multiple objective metrics. And
then ultimately how we give weight to
these things is subjectively. I
understand.
>> Okay. Well, you've already conceded the
prompt if that's it. But I'm going
further than that. My question is, you
say that rhythm is made up of multiple
objective things. Name them.
I don't know. Go ahead, name them.
That's what I'm asking.
Rhythm is made out of multiple object.
Well, it's it's made out of the the the
sequence, the the the notes, the timing
in between notes.
>> So, how do we know what's correct
timing?
>> Well, correct timing would be a
subjective thing, right?
>> Right. So, rhythm exists now. concept of
the concept of the timing of THE BEATS
THAT COME. YES, THAT OBJECTIVELY EXISTS,
but what we're determining when we say
that is like how do we know if it's good
or bad? And there is no objective
measuring.
It's subjective. YOU HEAR THE SONG,
YOU'RE LIKE THAT RHYTHM, IN FACT, YOU
COULD HAVE THE EXACT SAME DRUM beat in
two different songs AND IN ONE SAY
THAT'S [__] ATROCIOUS. That rhythm's
horrible. It doesn't fit the SONG
WHATSOEVER. AND THEN IN ANOTHER SONG BE
LIKE PERFECT. ONE OF THE BEST DRUMMING
BEATS I'VE EVER HEARD. THE EXACT SAME
DRUM, THE EXACT SAME PERFORMANCE. SO,
IT'S NOT OBJECTIVE, IT'S SUBJECTIVE.
DOES IT FIT IN with the OTHER PIECES?
SO, AGAIN, IT'S NOT AS SIMPLE AS SAYING,
WELL, WE HAVE THIS OBJECTIVE METRIC
RHYTHM. YEAH, YOU'RE RIGHT. THERE'S A
CONCEPT called rhythm that we may
evaluate when we're determining whether
or not a song is good. BUT THE IDEA OF
LIKE THERE'S AN OBJECTIVE METRIC IF IT'S
GOOD OR not that we could say puts it IN
THE TOP 5 TO 10%. THAT'S NOT TRUE.
OBJECTIVELY know if something's out of
rhythm or in rhythm, right?
>> Like a metronome,
>> maybe.
>> Does, right?
>> What if it's intentional?
>> I mean, if it's Yeah, if it's
intentional.
Yeah. But I mean, it it you could you
could I mean, I can use a calculator and
write boobies on it, right? It's
>> right. But I'm saying like theoretically
you could have the proper usage a
metronome's like this. a metronome. It's
It's speaking to something and we could
say it's out of rhythm. We're like, here
is the time signature, right? So, we're
going for four four, right? And the
metronome goes,
>> yeah,
>> now let's say it's broken. It starts
slowing down and it's like
tick tick. It's out of time, right?
>> But what if I wrote that? BUT WAIT, NO,
WAIT. WHAT IF I wrote
>> objective?
>> WELL, IT DEPENDS. WHAT IF I WROTE THE
SECOND SIGNATURE TO DO EXACTLY THAT?
WHAT IF NOW INSTEAD OF 44 I CHANGED TO
38 TIME?
Now what formerly you would have said,
"Wow, that metronome just changed time.
It's out of time." I SAID, "NO, I WROTE
IT INTENTIONALLY THAT WAY." OH, NOW IT'S
NOT OUT OF TIME.
>> RIGHT.
>> WELL, if it is meant to do something,
then it it wouldn't be out of time
because it's a planned thing. So, it's
doing what it's meant to do.
>> So, now let's say I'm
>> So, that's But that's
>> Now, let's say BB King's playing the
blues, right? To say something is out of
time would mean that there is a correct
timing. If you go, "Well, no, I intended
that." Then it would mean, "Yeah, it is
on still on correct time." Would it be
out OF TIME?
>> WHAT I'M SAYING IS HOW DO WE DETERMINE
WHETHER OR NOT they intended it?
>> Well, it whether we ask is it in this
time and then we go on. For example,
like this is I could be totally off base
here. I like this singer Van Morrison.
Now, if you ever try to sing Van
Morrison like karaoke, HE'S ALWAYS FEELS
OFF TIME TO ME.
And it's like, WHAT THE [__] LIKE, IT
FEELS like he's slightly late or
slightly fast. It feels out of time, but
it works. YOU'RE LIKE, NOW I DON'T KNOW.
DID HE WRITE THE vocal signature to be
slightly offbeat, OR IS HE JUST SLOW AND
IT JUST FITS IN WITH THE AMBIENCE OF THE
SONG? I DON'T KNOW. I don't know. I
CAN'T DETERMINE IF I HAD THE TIME SHEET
IN FRONT OF ME AND I WAS AN EXPERT.
Perhaps I could. The point is though to
say, well, we could ALL LISTEN TO THE
SONG go that's out of time. I don't know
that that's the case. And sometimes
being out of time, it adds to the song,
right? And it and it's LIKE EVEN IF IT'S
UNINTENTIONAL, it could be like, "Oh,
yes,
>> THAT MADE THAT LIVE VERSION BETTER. It
was slightly off."
>> Well, that adds a unique characteristic
to it, right?
>> Yeah. Uh it's it's it's so for me it's
like so we're WHEN I'M LIKE OKAY HOW DO
WE DETERMINE IF I'M A musician right I'm
I'm I'm in a rock band and I'm trying to
determine whether or not I'm making art
and you're like well the only way you're
making art is of your contemporaries
right now IS THE SONGS YOU'RE PRODUCING
IN THE TOP 5 TO 10% of the world or of
your AREA HOW WOULD I DETERMINE
>> that's why uniqueness comes into play
right because it accounts for things
that are that are you know object that
are possibly not in the norm form,
right? Normal time signatures, these
kind of things, right? So then it would
be something unique. It's kind of also
what gives it value.
>> I don't think so. I don't think the
uniqueness implies art whatsoever. In
fact, like it might be one of the
metrics that we would love, but it's
only one. In fact, you could hypothe
like you could hypothetically have a
unique song that's absolute trash that
all the experts say, "Yeah, it's unique
because it [__] sucks." Right? For
example, it would be okay. BUT LIKE BAD
BUNNY, WE AGREE HE SUCKS.
YEAH.
>> OKAY. AT BAD BUNNY, SAME DUDE SOMEHOW'S
IN THE 60S doing that. That's [__]
unique. Still sucks.
It's unique though. No one else is doing
it. Still sucks.
>> Yeah. Well, if it Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. No,
for for sure. It I mean, uniqueness is
one of the metrics. But again, if we go
Well, it's if it's the only metric
whether whether something is good, Yeah.
then it's probably not going to be a
great thing. Yeah. If it if that's the
only thing it's got going for it, yeah,
probably that's not going to be a
determining factor.
>> And then there's other things that do
with uniqueness. Like are the can the
lyrics make something unique? Like I
don't know if you heard Kanye's new hit.
>> Yes, cuz Yeah. Well, lyrics can because
it's right.
>> Well Well, yeah, but but lyrics do
because like writing is its own thing,
right? So it like for for your argument,
I wouldn't use that because like Yeah,
writing on its own is an art form,
right?
>> Well, yes. And so you could say the
lyrics are art, but maybe not the music
behind it. And all I'm saying is
>> autistic as [__]
>> Right. Right. Like, so I don't know. I
think Kanye is art, by the way.
>> I think his uniqueness helps with that,
but I also think he's [__]
tremendously talented,
>> but I mean, he's I mean, he's super
Yeah. I mean, he's highly talented,
highly successful. There's a there's a
lot of objective reasons why you could
say, you know, he's he he does his
thing. The chatter says, "The Rembrandt
is the Rembrandt because it's unique,
objectively unique. I think Rob needs to
prep next time." What does that have
anything to do with what we're talking
about? Does uniqueness imply art? If I
[__] on A PIECE, IF I IF I'M THE FIRST
PERSON THAT TAKES a [__] on a piece of
paper AND SAID, "THAT'S IT. NO ONE ELSE
HAS DONE THAT." Is that art?
>> Of course not. Uniqueness could be a
characteristic that we look to in art,
but just because something's unique
doesn't make it art.
>> No, you're absolutely wrong.
>> No, you are right with that. There has
to be there there has to be contributing
other factors right like I said when
when determining something like art it's
like what we did with the plane right we
can't say what constitutes a chair
that's very difficult to do right that's
the whole kind of philosophical argument
what is a chair
>> right
>> but if we go this specific thing is it a
chair now we're going to use objective
metrics to go well yes no yes no yes no
and then we make a determination but
usually these things will have multiple
factors when we go while we I understand
Rob's argument going while we wait this
one objective metric over another
we are doing that subjectively because
now placing weight we're making a good
or bad determination on a on an
objective metric
>> so it's application is subjective I
understand that
>> proved what I was trying to prove here
let's let's if you don't mind let's go
real why is an AI art
>> so be well that's that's easy right
because it's it's not a human doing it
Okay. But if a human puts in the prompts
to make it,
>> you created the LLM.
>> Well, generating means it's doing its
own thing that you are not in control
of, right?
>> I type in uh I want a picture of a
kitten surfing.
>> Yeah. But you're not controlling what it
outputs.
>> But nonetheless,
>> no, but you're not. So, fundamentally,
so like it's it it becomes the tool
argument, right? A tool is something
that you directly manipulate to do
something. But when you tell it, I want
you to do this thing, right? That it's
doing itself and then outputting
something to you. You are not directly
controlling its output. You are giving
it suggestions to output, but you're not
directly controlling output.
>> Okay.
>> The hammer I'm directly controlling.
>> Okay. Let me ask. At best, you're the
art director. So, it's the argument of
um the AI is the carpenter. I say, I
want that cupboard. I want it blue. I
wanted that handle. All of that. I tell
that. But I did not make the cupboard.
>> But that doesn't mean that
>> in no way are you the carpenter.
>> But the cupboard exists.
>> I did that.
>> The cupboard still exists.
>> No, it doesn't. It's It's not a person.
So, it doesn't exist.
>> No. No. If I tell someone else, if I
tell someone else to make the cupboard,
>> I may not be the artist. I'm the art
director, but the cupboard exists at the
end of the day, right?
>> The the cupboard exists, but the
argument is to the the whole point of
art is the the method in which something
is made. That's what gives it value,
right? So, if if and inherently it's a
thing that is attributed to humans. when
uh an AI is doing something at best
you're a collaborator in it but the
collaborator is not even a human in any
sense it doesn't even have personhood so
that is let's
determination let's go now this isn't
the exact point but I think it's worth
addressing to get to the point of it
>> you know most great sculptors didn't
actually sculpt their works they had
other people do it they'd make like a
little little statue or something and
then they would direct Yeah, sure. A lot
of sculptures that that's
>> not true.
>> It's not true.
>> That is not true. No, it's not true. The
great the great artists did not do that.
In modernity, they do do that. Yes. I I
have been on teams that do do that and
it's a massive [__] problem. The
whole art industry is a scam. There's
multiple teams of people doing the work.
The famous person sits in an office,
goes down and signs it, and it's done. I
know. I've done these. I have a lot of
work that's in galleries that I made
that has another person's name on it.
>> All right. So, here's
>> with the masters that wasn't the case.
There was apprentices that assisted
them, but that but that that's just
depending on the size and complexity of
projects.
>> One of the ancient Greek masters
considered one of the best sculptors was
Fidius. Fidius designed overall
concepts, made models, and handled key
artistic decisions. But it was his pudis
alchemis and agricas plus a team of
carvers that did the marble work of the
parthonon etc. In Rome Roman sculpture
production was even more let me finish
Roman sculpture production was more
industrialized. Demand for statues
portraits copies of masterpieces was
huge among the elite. Many Roman
sculptures are marble copies of lost
Greek bronze made in workshops using
pointing machines for accurate
replication. Masters designed or
supervised, but it was the assistance
apprentice and often enslaved skilled
artisans that did the labor carving,
polishing, and assembling. Ancient Egypt
sculpture especially for tombs, temples,
and royal statues was produced and
organized workshops attached to temples.
Masters oversaw the designs and quality,
but teams of craftsmen handled decor,
carving, detailing, and polishing.
Seems like this is pretty common
throughout the ancient world. You're
giving you're giving me one anecdotal um
uh you're giving me one anecdotal, but
that doesn't necessarily mean that all
great sculptors did that. You
understand?
>> I DIDN'T SAY ALL. I SAID MANY.
>> WELL, many could have done that, but
that doesn't mean that that that
>> okay.
Let's say that that okay, one of these
exists. Okay. Is that person
is that person the artist? Is Famed is
the artist?
>> Um no. So I would say that he's he he
would be the designer. The artist would
be the the people that made the thing.
He will be designated as the artist
because that's how art works.
>> Okay. So let's go.
>> If you ask me for my determination, know
the artist is the person that physically
did the thing.
>> He designed it. So he's the designer.
>> Okay. So if I make a painting, I'm the
artist. If it rises to the level of what
you call art. Okay.
>> Then we accept that I made that
painting. It rises a level of art and
then it goes into print
>> and a bunch of copies are made. Are
those prints art?
>> Well, they're designated as prints,
right?
>> Correct.
>> So, they they wouldn't be the original
art piece.
>> True. Or they are.
>> Nobody would mistake that for the case,
right?
>> But are they themselves art?
>> I mean, it it that would depend on
whether they're um limited issues, they
are signed. Um, with art you have to
document these things, right? So that
the it's it's for plagiarism and things,
right? These things have to be
documented. So if you do uh limited
prints to for it to be considered art,
right? It would have to be what 50 100
it would be a set. So sets are very
important in art, right? That's why
they're numbered.
>> But I don't understand why that matters,
right? Either the prints are art or
they're not. Like if you limit the
prints to 1500, say, "Okay, that's art."
But if you wouldn't have limited the
prints, then it's not art. That doesn't
seem to be a distinction that matters.
>> Well, mass mass- prodduced things in in
that sense. That's why art has a set is
because that makes it lose value. So
that
>> but the value is irrelevant as whether
or not it's art.
>> The value is irrelevant as to whether or
not we define it as art.
>> I mean, we can, like I said, we can
subjectively define anything as whatever
the [__] we want to. I can.
>> But that's but I'm saying in your
worldview of what you qualify as art.
>> What why would it not? I I don't
understand it wouldn't be art because a
gallery wouldn't accept them either
because of objectively that it's a mass
produced
things are generally not art. No.
>> Okay. I don't know. I don't know if I
agree with that. I think that
replications of things that were by our
definition art or by your definition art
would still be a representation of art
and still qualify as art.
>> Is a representation of something the
thing?
>> No, not necessarily. But I think it
still qualifies as that thing in this
case. I think it's still art.
Well, I mean, yeah, subjectively, yeah,
you could maybe make that determination,
but objectively, everybody would tell
you that it has no value um in the sense
of it being equivalent to the original
audience.
>> What so it gets to this question, it
gets to this question with AI. So, let's
go a step further. Let's say I use
limited computer tools, uh but then I
use computer programs to draw on top of
the limited tools. And the end product
you look at and you go, that's [__]
fantastic. Is that art or is it not?
Because my collaborator in it that did
roughly half
was a machine.
Is that art?
>> Are you sorry to say that again?
>> Let's say there are a lot of artists
that do this. They'll like use programs
that like build like a lot of like the
base structure or something. Like let's
say I'm creating a video game character,
an animated character. There are these
computer programs people use that'll
build like the body or something of the
person and then I add all the little
details AND IT COMES OUT AND YOU'RE LIKE
THAT'S [__] AMAZING. The art
direction of this is amazing. Is that
art or is because 50% of it was done by
a computer.
>> Is it not art?
>> Oh yeah. See, see, see this is difficult
for me because I would I would
ultimately in one of my objective
metrics, if I if I have to apply an
objective, I would say that um in like
uh if if you lay it out in a
hierarchical structure, I would say that
one person doing something would have
more value than multiple people doing
it. And the more people you add, it kind
of dilutes the effort, right? But the
end but the but that might come into
context of who we consider an artist.
>> But the end product it wouldn't evaluate
whether or not it is art. For example,
let's say I show you a painting and
you're like let's let's just take a
historical let's say like uh the Sistine
Chapel. We would agree that's art,
right? It's [__] beautiful, right?
What if somehow some historical records
came out and it was like actually this
is painted by 20. By the way, do you why
one of the the 16 chapel is insane is
because Michelangelo was given
apprentices to help him which are which
were masters in the fresco art of that
painting style and he told them all to
[__] off and he did it himself.
>> So let's say that let's say not though
let's say that ACTUALLY THAT WAS A LIE
and we find historical records that show
he actually collaborated with 20 people
who not only painted it but helped come
up with the design with him and he paid
them off richly. Is that now less art?
You would say that Da Vinci is less of
an artist value because multiple people
worked on it, right? Objectively
multiple people did it. So not he did
it. So he can't claim that he actually
himself,
>> right? I will concede to you then the
status of Da Vinci the artist is
decreased. But the art itself now
knowing that it's the same or Michael
I'm sorry Dainci the art itself it's the
same piece.
>> It's just now instead of one person it
was 20. Well, it wouldn't be the same
piece. It wouldn't be the same piece.
>> The piece is exactly the same.
>> No, it wouldn't. Well, you earlier said
with exactly the same if somebody else
did it and not you, you couldn't be
saying you couldn't make the
determination that it would be exactly
the same thing. It would probably not be
exactly the same.
>> This was created by my son, right?
>> Yes.
>> Okay, I lied. Actually, my wife did it.
Is it still the same thing?
IT'S STILL THE SAME OBJECT, THE SAME
DRAWING.
>> That's what I'm saying. If we looked, IF
I DIDN'T KNOW [__] all about
Michelangelo and I didn't know [__]
about nature of who created it.
>> If I DIDN'T KNOW IF I DIDN'T KNOW [__]
all about the Cyine Chapel or
Michelangelo and I'm drunk one night,
right, and I'm hanging out with Elon
Musk and I wake up in a [__] airplane
and all of a sudden I find myself at the
Systeine Chapel, right? And I'm
stumbling around and I walk in and I
look up and I'm like, "Holy [__] THIS
IS ONE OF THE MOST beautiful things I've
EVER SEEN EVER." WOULD I BE ABLE WITHOUT
KNOWING ANY OF THE CONTEXT TO SAY,
"THAT'S SOME [__] WONDERFUL ART.
>> YEAH."
>> Would that cease to be wonderful art if
someone WAS LIKE, "YEAH, BUT GUESS WHAT,
ROB? 20 people painted that, not one."
>> I'd say, "Oh, whatever. It's wonderful
art."
I mean, yeah, but but objectively if you
go, well, the the effort put in, you can
go, well, Rob, it's basically like this.
If if if somebody goes, um, I'm going to
lift a bar of very heavy weight and then
four people do it, it lessens the the
the thing that was done because multiple
people build did it. So, it's not as
impressive. Objectively, it's not as
impressive. If four people lift a a
[__] bar in a gym, that's not as
impressive as if one person did that.
Objectively, it's not.
>> But this is a fundamental disagreement I
think that we're having. I don't think
that the labor that goes into something
is representative of the final product
being considered good or art. You could
say it's not as the creation of it isn't
as impressive as I once thought. But if
I see what I consider to be the most
beautiful painting ever and I think one
person did it and it turns out two
people did it, I don't say, "Oh, now I
don't think it's a beautiful painting."
I just say the people that I was
formerly given credit for I SAY NO
THEY'RE NOT as great of an artist as I
once thought right uh so that's you know
that's how I look at it right like okay
this question of bands that Holong Nate
sang here right if I hear a song
>> yeah but but music is different right
and even if we look at music originally
it was a a composer doing it right and
then multiple people were used because
one person cannot play multiple
instruments.
>> Well,
>> one person cannot play [__] 30
instruments.
>> Yes, they can.
>> How how
>> they record it. In fact, NOT ONLY CAN
YOU DO IT ON AN ALBUM
>> with Listen, let me finish.
>> Be done.
>> I listen to I listen to the Foo Fighter
FIRST ALBUM. WHO PLAYED ALL THE
INSTRUMENTS?
>> What I'm listening to
that Dave Gro did all of the writing
then if multiple people did all of the
writing. You just said it's not possible
and I just proved it.
>> I I was I was saying in terms of an
orchestra back in the day, I was
appealing to how music used to work.
There was a composer that wrote the
music, one person, and then yes, he
would employ multiple people to play the
music because of limitations that a
human cannot play.
>> But nonetheless, nonetheless, that
wouldn't get you out of the
conversation. Now, if a great painting
is impressive if one person painted it,
but not as much if three people painted.
If I hear a great rock song and I'm
like, "Holy [__] one guy did all those
instruments versus actually it was a
band of eight people, does that diminish
the art?"
>> JUST BECAUSE WELL, BACK BEFORE WHEN WE
DIDN'T HAVE TECHNOLOGY, THIS WAS the way
it had to be. Okay.
>> In in the sense of in the sense of a
band, I wouldn't say that it necessarily
diminishes the art in in the sense of if
it's multiple talented individuals. I
would say that in the sense of like we
used him earlier like Trent Resner
writing everything himself and playing
everything himself right I would say
that that carries more artistic weight
the same way in movies not only a
director is good a writer director is
better because he did more of the
artistic endeavor that he but I don't
think it carries more weight
>> but what we're talking about is the
talent of the creator not the end
product right if for example If I told
you like take your like a movie I really
like take the movie Gladiator and if I
said to you listen you want to know
what's crazy about Gladiators [__]
haunts me. You want to know what's
crazy? Actually for the average big
budget movie in Hollywood they only used
half the crew. You'd be like no [__]
AND I'M LIKE I'M JUST KIDDING. YOU'RE
LIKE OH NOW THE art's not as important
to me.
It doesn't make sense. You're like well
the end product's [__] amazing.
>> I'm not saying it makes it it makes it
worth nothing if multiple people are
involved. I'm I don't think it makes it
worth less. That's what I'm saying. I
don't think I don't think that
>> Well, I'm I'm giving you an argument why
you have to dispute the argument that if
one person does something a singular
individual does something that's not
more impressive. So being able to play
multiple instruments is not as is is
more impressive than if you can only
play one instrument. Right.
>> It is not. But that's because you're
conflating two things. One is the
impressive nature of the artist.
Secondly is the outcome of the art.
Like for example,
I COULD SAY IF I DON'T KNOW, IF I HAVE
NO IDEA who a musician is and I just
hear this song and I say, "Is this good
art or not?" And you're like, "Yeah,
yeah." I give it an eight out of 10. I
think it's fantastic. It's a fantastic
song, right? And then you're like,
"Yeah, but get this. Get this. Did you
know that that had five people on it?" I
don't go, "Oh, never mind. Six out of
10."
>> Yeah. We change my evaluation. music. We
criticize this because there's seven
producers on a [__] song for Rihanna
and she barely does anything. Yes, those
things do carry less weight.
>> No, I don't.
>> Those things do carry less weight.
Do carry less weight.
>> I just want to quickly do a time check
for you guys. We're at 5 hours or do you
guys want to move?
>> We could do we'll do we'll do closing
statements.
>> Rob, I need a bathroom break. Five in
the morning. We'll do closing. Let me
give like let me give like three like
two or three on this two or three
minutes more on this and then I'm
willing to do closing statements. I
don't know. I don't think the question I
don't think the question is as
>> I don't think the question as to whether
or not AI could do art. It's as simple
as it seems, right? I think that I do
agree that your gut feeling says there's
something it has nothing to do about
like top five or 10% or any of that. I
think we will get to a point
particularly in certain things like
music or photography etc like
replicating in realistic photography. I
think that we'll get to a point quite
soon here in the next 5 to 10 years that
computers and LLMs are able to
outperform many people we think are
great artists when it comes to just the
sheer like [__] design. Do we
consider that art? Well, I don't know.
Maybe there is something about human
emotion and spirit being necessary. But
unfortunately, Chris, that goes
antithetical to how you're defining art
because you're like the subjective like
human feeling and emotion and shit's
irrelevant. That's irrelevant to the
point. What's about replicability and
it's about the talent?
>> And if that's the case, I don't you
know,
>> if the feelings and things involved in
art, then yeah, if a computer if a
computer can make it just as good, it it
the human becomes meaningless. Rob,
>> maybe so.
>> Yeah. mine places emphasis on the human
saying that a humans need to make art
and if a machine does it objectively it
is a machine making it and not a human
>> but the problem
>> I place emphasis on on the human
>> well I think that the human is still
necessary in my equation to view the art
the subject the person interpreting the
art's still important the machine
doesn't matter it's not art if I perform
something and say what does the machine
think the art is the experience that the
person viewing it what is the re like
listen I give you objective reasons why
AI is bad and the computerization of
things, but when it comes to the concept
of art itself, why does it matter if
humans are involved? IT SEEMS ALMOST
LIKE ARBITRARY under your definition. If
it doesn't have to do with human
emotion,
>> if it's a human if it's a human
achieving a desired outcome, if a
machine does it, it's not a human
achieving a desired outcome.
>> Yeah, but why is it necessary for it to
be a human?
>> It's necessary for a human to do it.
Otherwise, it's just an output and not
art. What if if aliens exist? Can they
make art?
>> I mean, no. [__] [__] ALIENS. YOU DON'T
COME ON MY PLANET. I GET MY SHOTGUN AND
I CHASE YOU AWAY. BETTER GET MY SHOTGUN.
[__] aliens landing on our planet.
[__] No. [__] them.
>> I mean, clearly they would be able to,
right?
>> What about elephants? I've seen an
elephant paint. People spend big money
to buy those pictures. Is that art?
Yeah, but the elephant doesn't have
intentionality behind what it's doing.
Nonetheless, it's just repeating
something that a human showed it how to
do and then it
>> might that that might be true. And let's
assume for the second
>> same as the computer it has to be.
>> Let's assume let's assume for the sec
for a section that's true. Nonetheless,
based on other criteria you say could be
indicative of something being art,
massive historical and cultural
significance.
And some animals it seems like are a
higher order. For example, you could
theoretically see a chimp making a
rudimentary song, not just because it's
repeating something. Is that art?
>> No.
>> Why not?
>> It's not a human doing it, right?
>> But why why the distinction of human
>> human effort? Well, it's in my
definition that I gave you at the start
of the
>> What I'm saying is the definition you
need to give a merit why it's necessary
for human and that's not
>> Well, if a if a if a chimp does does
plays an instrument, it played an
instrument. It didn't make art.
>> Why? What specifically means that that's
not art? You're one of the definitions
you gave for art was quote
>> a learned craft to create a desired
outcome. IF A CHIMP is taught over and
over again how to bang bongos, right,
and it has the desire, it truly is not
just repeating, but it has the desire. I
want to play these bongos in a rhythmic
tone to please the people around. Is
that not art based on your definition?
>> Desired outcomes from the human that
shows it what to do. The desired outcome
of the chimp is to get some kind of
snack or something.
>> Do you agree that chimps have desired
outcomes?
>> Yes. Which is food, not making art.
>> Not necessarily. There's other outcomes
that chimps have.
>> No, such food or sex.
>> If you've seen any of these people, they
give the animal a treat, right? We we
understand this. It's it's the
>> BUT THAT'S NOT ALL. THAT'S HOW WE train
many animals, but they could have
desires outside.
>> The desired outcome of the chimp is not
to make art. It
>> define what art is. If it's just a learn
craft for a desired outcome, if a chimp
makes music because it wants to impress
a human or it wants to impress other
chimps, why wouldn't that be art?
>> It wouldn't be art in the sense of the
the the learned skill that is is the it
comes down to the intention of the
desired outcome, right? The learned
skill is not for the desired outcome of
creating art. The animal functioning
doesn't even have an understanding of
what it's doing, right?
>> Well, that's not true. A chimp may have
understood.
>> I mean, you can say it's not true, but
that's not that's not true.
>> For example, do we know?
>> Do we know chimps and orangutans learn
to use tools?
>> Learn to use tools.
>> Correct. Okay. So, the desired outcome
is they're using the tool for a specific
purpose,
>> right?
>> Yes.
>> Okay. So,
>> yes.
>> IT'S NOT JUST BECAUSE THE HUMANS like if
you use that tool, I'll reward you. They
have an independent purpose that they're
using the tool for that they want to see
fulfilled.
>> Yes. But it's what the intended intended
purpose is that the animal is using or
what the intention is. It's not an
artistic intention that is an artistic
intention of a lower.
>> You said artistic intention is learning
high order category versus lower order
category.
>> You said your definition was learning a
craft to create a desired. Human is also
in my definition. Human is in my
definition and in the original Greek and
Latin definition.
>> What is it specific? What is it specific
about human?
>> It's in the original definitions. Yes,
it's specifically human. It says
>> what is it specific that matters about
human?
>> The intentionality behind
>> what is the but what is the
intentionality behind? That's the
question I have.
>> A specific desired outcome,
>> right? Why couldn't animals do that?
Because the specific desired outcome
that the animal has is not the creation
of the art piece. It's some other
incentive form like a [__] snack.
>> But that it gets because it did the
thing.
>> Not necessarily.
LIKE IF I COULD FIND YOU AN EXAMPLE OF A
CHIMP that just
>> So the chimp wants to express itself.
That's why it learned to paint.
>> Why did chimps learn sign language?
Because a human forced it to learn sign
language by giving it food. So it's
doing the thing to get the food. That's
the intention.
>> Not just food. All sorts of things.
>> I mean you you don't disagree
because if it's done with food, it's
clearly the intention is to give it food
and that's how they teach them to do
that.
>> But it doesn't matter. They could use it
for other things. Are they only then
communicating sign language for food?
>> They wouldn't do it if they're not
getting food. They're not just going to
do it for fun because they want to
express themselves. NO.
>> OKAY. THEN I'LL SAY NO ONE'S truly an
artist because if people weren't getting
paid to get resources, they would never
start in the first place. So therefore,
their learning of art was always just in
response for personal benefit. So
therefore, none of
>> the original the original inception of
it is as a craft or or a skill, right?
That was meant to put food on the table.
Yes, that was the intention originally,
right? That was
>> therefore no art. It's all necessitate
that. It's all there's no art then if
that was the original intention of it.
>> It's not.
>> There's of course you just admitted that
was the original intent of art. Okay. So
then there's no such thing as art
because all humans just learned
eventually for personal benefit to get
resources and food.
>> Well, it wouldn't be necessarily food,
right? The intention would be to do it
well to do this thing. The chimp does
not have a determination of that. It's
hypothetically it's hypothetically true
that they can
>> you can say I don't know that but you
would have to it's your claim. So you
would have to prove that the chimp does
understand these things, right?
>> No. What what have
>> my job to to prove your point?
>> If what I'm saying is that if this was
if it was hypothetically true if it was
hypothetically true that a chimp could
do this, then why would it be limited to
humans?
I mean, you even make the argument that
an alien that could be a higher order
thinker than a human also couldn't
achieve art. Why?
>> Because they're not human.
>> What is it unique about human is like
human is kind of in that definition,
right? So, that's a kind of an important
thing that you're overlooking the human.
>> But it's arbitrary.
>> It's not arbitrary. What What is is what
is a human arbitrary?
>> No. The idea that only humans could do
art is arbitrary. It would seem to me if
I steal man your position it would be
like because there's some sort of higher
order level of thinking that animals
don't possess that would be necessary
for art and therefore only humans could
do it. But then if I'm like well what if
we find intelligent life that's on a
near equal scale of humans or greater
would they be able to do art? And you're
like no and I'm like why because they're
not humans. So you aiomatically define
art can only be done by humans. And when
I ask why should we prefer that
definition you're like because it is
>> BECAUSE IT'S I DEFINE IT AS ONLY HUMAN
THEREFORE IT'S ONLY HUMAN.
>> Why in tribalized bias there's there's a
different definition tribalized bias
because we are humans we should prefer
humans. There we go. There's a
difference.
>> But that has nothing to but again yes
but that could be true mutually of how
we define CERTAIN TERMS LIKE I YES I'M A
HUMANIST. I PREFER HUMANS OVER any sort
of other
>> humans in the definition. And it's kind
of important that that that the
distinction is a human doing something.
>> Okay. I define art as only nonhumans
could do it.
>> Okay, cool. So, no humans have done art.
That's obs.
That's just [__] You can say that,
but it's No, no, NO, NO, NO, NO. IT'S
NOT [__]
>> Mine is logically consistent. Yours is
ridiculous because we have we have
objective proof that humans do art.
>> What are you WHAT ARE YOU TALKING ABOUT?
>> Show me the show me the proof that
aliens do art, Rob. No, I'll show you
the proof that Wait, I'll show you the
proof of what I just said. I'll show you
the proof of what I just said.
>> I'll show you the proof of what I just
said. Humans have never done art. You
ready for the proof?
>> All right, let's go.
>> The definition is humans can't do art.
>> Oh, okay.
>> So, humans have never done art.
>> All right. Well, that's that's nice that
you say that.
>> YOU SAY ONLY HUMANS COULD DO ART. I SAY
WHY? YOU SAY BECAUSE I'VE DEFINED IT AS
SUCH. OKAY. That means nothing. You've
made an argument.
>> Did I subjectively Did I subjectively
define it as that or is that the the the
definition that other people have
granted to towards our subject matter?
You just making [__] up. I'm re I
researched my history and where the
definitions came from. So you can just
make up whatever the [__] you want. That
doesn't make it [__] because if we
can talk,
they would give a reason why they've
included humans. AND IF OTHER THINGS
WOULD meet that criteria, then they
would say yes, that too would fit into
our definition. You don't do that. You
diverge from them by saying that there's
other organizations or other organisms
WITH HIGHER ORDER THINKING. I still
arbitrarily say no, they can't do
>> you don't know what they would have
done. Can you prove what they would have
done and would not have done? No, you
can't.
>> Yes, I could prove that someone I COULD
PROVE. I could prove that people that
were experts in using logic wouldn't
have arbitrary definitions without
explaining exactly why.
>> Why is because it's specifically
>> because they were logicians. They were
intelligent people that knew how to
follow syllogisms. They wouldn't just
arbitrarily say something. We define
only humans could do art. Why? Because
they're human. But why? Because we SAID
NO, THEY WOULDN'T SAY THAT. They would
say because we differentiate. They would
say here's how we differentiate humans
from other beings. And if someone SAID,
"OKAY, BUT FOR EXAMPLE, LET'S SAY THAT
ONE OF THE GREEKS THAT YOU'RE talking
about believed in the Greek pantheon.
>> Would he think that Zeus could do art?
Would he think that the gods, the muses
that inspired art were capable of art?
The muses? Wait a minute. They're not
human.
>> I don't know. I mean, you can ask them
and let me know what they say.
>> Why don't you tell me? You seem to be an
expert.
>> You're the one defending. They said only
humans.
>> Explain to me why a Greek philosopher
that believed in the Greek pantheon of
gods, right, WOULD SAY, "NOPE, THEY'RE
INCAPABLE OF ART." WHEN THEY QUITE
ARTICULATELY TALKED ABOUT THE ARTISTIC
representations that were on Olympus and
that THE GODS DID. THEY TALK ABOUT IT
ALL THE TIME IN THEIR MYTHS. I don't
recall them being like, "Well, WAIT A
MINUTE. THAT'S NOT ART.
>> There's something unique about humans
that the gods can't achieve.
>> It makes no sense.
>> I mean, yeah, we can. I mean, I mean, I
can I don't know. I don't I don't have
ancient Greeks on on call that I can
ask. You're the person making the
definitive claim.
>> Well, I'm I'm I'm looking at the the
definition that the [__] Greeks gave
us, Rob, that says humans specifically
in
>> because they're separating humans from
animals. That's so we can speculate.
>> They're not separating humans from
higher order.
>> Yeah.
>> Right.
>> So, it's clear
I have a I have an imaginary unicorn
that I say would be able to do art.
That's the Greek pantheon doesn't mean
[__] to me if it's not actually a thing
that exists, right?
>> If does does the Greek pantheon gods
actually exist? So I can say that my
[__] fluffy unicorn can do art, but
does it exist? No, it doesn't. So I'm
just saying nonsense.
>> If you appeal to an authority and say,
"I'm appealing to this Greek guy who
defined what art is." And that Greek guy
says, "Yes, and the muses could do art.
And Athena could do art." It doesn't
matter that Athena really exists
non-existent because you have chosen to
appeal to an authority.
>> You have chosen
you're engaging in a fallacy. You're
engaging in an appeal to authority. The
problem with doing that is if you appeal
to that authority, THEN YOU HAVE TO
ACCEPT to what their authority is. And
if their authority says art can be done
by humans and the gods, then you HAVE TO
ACCEPT THAT.
I'M SAYING THAT WE SHOULDN'T JUST have
that appeal to an authority. We should
rational We should look at the logical
We should look at the logical rale why a
person would think that.
>> So the reason that a person would say
I've given you I've given you I've given
you outs. I've given you out. You can't
give one LOGICAL REASON WHY
>> you are appealing to [__] aliens and
Greek pantheon gods to make your
argument. Man, come on. We appealing to
non-existent things to make your
argument at this point. First off, you
don't know that aliens ARE NON-EXISTING.
SECOND, GOD EXISTS.
>> I know that.
>> Are you Christian?
>> Yes, I am Christian.
>> Does Jesus Christ exist? Does God exist?
>> Yes.
>> Do angels exist?
>> Can they form art?
>> I wouldn't know.
>> What do you mean YOU WOULDN'T KNOW?
EXPLAIN WHY THEY COULDN'T.
>> I WOULDN'T KNOW. They probably wouldn't
have any intention to create.
>> It's explained in many Christian
writings. Golden streets more beautiful
than you could ever imagine. Created by
God. Well, God God created God created
everything, right? So, I mean, the the
the at the level at which God operates,
if you're talking about I actually think
that the creativity and the reason we
create is because we are created in the
same way.
>> Not interesting. I agree. Not the
question though. Did God create art?
>> Yeah.
>> Wait, THAT CAN'T BE. YOUR DEFINITION is
only humans.
>> You're being sneaky now.
>> I'm not being sneaky. You said I was
using imaginary THINGS. NOW I'VE GOT YOU
TO guess God exists. Is he Did he make
art?
>> Well, he made humans that make art,
didn't he?
>> Did he make art?
>> Is there a painting that God made or did
he make humans that make paintings?
>> Well, it's is only paintings art.
>> No, but I mean there's no there's no
piece of music or any of this that was
made.
>> God created the most beautiful landscape
ever.
>> He's so beyond any of that. the the the
scale of his creation is doesn't even
come close to now the the higher order
category of art that I'm appealing to.
God is so beyond that category that that
is just a
>> God created. If I look out and see a
beautiful landscape, the most beautiful
thing I've ever seen and it was created
by God. Did he create art?
>> Nature itself,
>> it's unreplicable. THAT'S ONE OF THE NO
ONE COULD REPLICATE IT. THAT WAS ONE OF
THE THINGS YOU SAID. THAT'S ONE OF THE
It's beautiful. It's a technical skill
that no one will ever be able to
approve. icate nature. Yes, we can. We
can make coral reefs. We can plant
plants. We can be Yes.
>> So, I just want to be clear, your
argument, just to be clear.
>> You're saying we can't make coral reefs.
We do it all the time.
>> I want to I WANT TO I WANT TO GET YOUR
ARGUMENT HERE. YOUR ARGUMENT is that a
musician could create a song that is so
difficult that no one ever could
replicate it. BUT THE MOUNTAINS, THE
SEAS, the beach, the ocean, the forest
that were created by God, humans could
do ALL THAT. THAT'S YOUR ARGUMENT. Not
saying I'm saying what we can do. I'm
not I'm not comparing this to God,
right? Don't like I don't like this is I
don't like this because now I don't want
to say like things that [__] heresy
or anything. But what humans do do is we
have ocean ocean engineers that create
new beaches. We create mountains. We
create human dams. We create human
ecosystems. We do do this. It's not
>> It is nowhere on the level of the
nowhere.
Right. And so if you're going to say
>> the same way art is not on a level that
is comparable to God.
>> No, no, no. What I'm saying is what we
higher.
>> What we define what we define is art is
clearly achievable and exceeded beyond
God. Would you agree with that?
>> Sorry. Yeah.
>> God only God not only can create art and
has created art. He
>> category is way higher than art.
>> So he created art, he exceeded art and
he's way beyond.
Well, I would well specifically creating
art probably not because he created a
way God could do anything complex
version that is humans that because he
creates we have a little bit of that
spirit that creates things and that we
call art.
>> That's interesting. I've never heard
this.
>> So you're appealing to things that God
that God does.
>> God could create anything and do
anything except art. You can't do that.
>> Interesting. I've never heard that
theory, especially from a Christian.
THAT'S VERY INTERESTING. FOR SOME
REASON, THE ONE THING GOD can't do is
art.
>> Huh?
>> I didn't say he couldn't. I said that
the categories at which he operates.
>> So, would you acknowledge? Fine. Simple.
>> Could God create art?
>> Yes, technically.
>> Okay. BUT THEN HOW CAN THE DEFINITION OF
ART BE it has to be human?
>> You're being a dick cuz I just thought
about this. No, you're being a dick.
You're being a dick cuz you MAY MAKING
VALID POINTS, Uncle Rob, you bastard.
All right, listen.
>> I'm not giving up. [__] you. But listen,
Rob, because also you know what would
have even been better if you say Jesus
because Jesus was God in human form and
he could HAVE DONE IT.
>> BETTER ARGUMENT BECAUSE of your
nonsense. Damn it. The point the the
point I'm trying to make is there's no
reason that people that organisms that
had a similar order of thinking wouldn't
be able to achieve this unless there is
like a spiritual component or an
emotional component. That's it. But
you're denying that. You're saying no.
That's not part of art. It's not
necessary.
>> No, no, no. I never disputed a spiritual
component. No, no, no. I never said
that. That's incorrect. I never said I
dispute the spiritual component.
>> But you never included it as necessary
for art. No, I disputed emotional
emotional and subjective things. I never
disputed a a spirit cuz if a spirit is a
holistic of what makes a human, it would
be implied as in the process of
creation. I'm actually appealing to that
the spirit is a fundamental for creating
art because without a spirit there ain't
no human. Rob,
>> no. I think that I don't think that any
rationale you gave would exist as to why
intelligent animals couldn't create art
or more importantly while other
intelligent beings that we haven't met
couldn't create art. In other words, I'm
testing this to say that I think that
you're just making an arbitrary metric
of humans being necessary for art. I
think it's arbitrary. Uh maybe there's
something to the intentionality and
stuff that I get, you know, and maybe
that differentiates AI. I'm not so sure.
I wonder if for me it's something I
struggle with is is art more about the
artist or the receiver of the art and if
I if if like you know if if I am from a
society like let's say I [__] in the
past or I'm in one of these [__] up
you know like Brazilian jungle societies
right and like I start to get in touch
with civilization and someone shows me
that picture I showed you earlier right
that actually won an art contest this
here I'll share it one Well, but did I
immediately tell you that that was AI?
That's
>> maybe, but that's irrelevant as to
whether or not it's
>> Yeah. So, it shows that the people that
gave that dude, you pulled up a random
picture and I looked at it and said it's
fake. And then you told me experts said
they they gave that an award. So, it
just proves that the experts are [__]
idiots. If my god,
>> can you show that screen share real
quick?
>> African ass could tell the difference
within seconds.
>> What does that tell us about the
experts? Who said they who said they
didn't say it was AI?
Maybe they thought it was AI but still
interpreted it as art.
>> You don't know.
>> I mean, I can't say what their minds
were doing at that point, but you do do
you dispute that what I said did occur?
>> I think what happened is
you had other factors.
>> I did immediately I within seconds told
you that that was AI. I think you had
other factors that led you to the
conclusion that there was AI. You were
debating an intelligent person that you
expected to set some sort of trap for
you. And so you were intentionally
looking if you would have this one in
2022. If you would have seen this
picture in 2022, if like your local
college was like, "Hey man, could you
come judge?" I don't know that you would
have pegged this as AI in 2022. I don't
if it wasn't in the context that we HAVE
NOW. NONETHELESS, MY question is, if I'm
from a society that's unaware of AI or
its ability to create photos or anything
like that and I see that, I may well
think that's art. Am I wrong?
I mean, I would say yes. It is incorrect
for the sense of that it is generated by
a machine and the person who would have
appealed to being the creator of it
would have been lying. So, just on that,
>> but I mean it's irrelevant. It's
irrelevant to me that I don't know the
creator. I don't know what his appeal
is.
>> I'm saying that like for me, for me, art
is like I see something that I assume
was created to aesthetically be pleasing
and I am aesthetically pleased and it
evokes positive or it evokes some sort
of feeling or emotion within me. Why am
I wrong? If you were like, "No, that's
not art. A machine made it." I might
say,
>> "I can't I can't I can't tell you your
feelings are incorrect." Right? I I Yes,
I understand. I can't tell you your
feelings towards something are
incorrect. But when I tell you if we
look at objective metrics, I can
disprove I can disprove whether whether
I attribute something to be art or not
because the intentionality behind it um
of the desired outcome being something
fundamental to a human creating.
>> But again, I could use objective
metrics. I could say look at the line
structure there. Look at like the center
focus like oh these are things. What's
that?
>> [__] It looks blobby. It looks blobby.
>> Maybe. But maybe I'd say I you could say
that, but I could say there are actually
things in that that are sound
artistically.
>> Humans look like little blobby dildos
there in the background with a little
circle there. That doesn't
>> I could show you paintings that are
considered high art where I think the
humans look like [__] too.
>> It's not all about direct replication,
right?
>> Well, initially that was what it was,
right? So cave paintings, all of these
things were attempts at direct
replication, right?
>> Maybe
>> the intentionality would have been in
essence to directly replicate something
as as as
>> but it's clear that that can't be the
interpretation that we're still going
with. And I could prove it, right?
Because we consider other things art
that clearly aren't about direct
representation. And it's more that
they're designed to evoke feelings like
music. Music's not the the sound version
of human, right? it's evoking something,
right? And so if you could do that
audibly, there's no reason that we
couldn't have art that visually is doing
the same thing. It doesn't have to be a
direct way. Like for example, MUSIC
WASN'T JUST LIKE, "OH, YES, THAT SOUNDS
EXACTLY LIKE A saber-tooth tiger. That's
music." It wasn't that, right?
>> No.
>> So if there's if IT'S IF IT'S ABOUT
EVOCATION OF feelings and and other
aesthetically factors when it comes to
audibly, why wouldn't the same be true
visually? Well, with with visual arts,
that would be the case. With with with
music, it would be something that would
be uh aesthetically pleasing, right?
That that would give a sound an
aesthetic appeal.
>> Well, the same could be true of of
visual art, I would see. Like for
example, another form of visual arts,
architecture. It's not directly
replicating like the form and anatomy of
a human.
>> Yeah. Well, that's also that's a
different art form, right? that that
contains different criteria like space
usage um it will also be determined on
aesthetic appeals these kind of things
right so acoustic comes into account for
that it's a it's it's functional versus
something that is merely aesthetic uh
architecture has archival properties
early music would not have an archival
property it only has archival property
when you bring in recording and digital
the same as you know with uh yeah like
dancing or anything. It's what you know
the whole point behind film.
>> So I think that I'm ready for closing
statements because I do have to read
super chat here still. So uh I could go
first or second. It doesn't matter.
Whatever you feel
>> whatever I started I don't know.
>> Well it depends. Everyone does it
differently. So it's it's it's however
you guys want it to be.
>> I don't care. I can go first if you
like. If you'd rather go second.
>> I mean, Rob, it's up to you. You've been
a late easy six hours, dude.
>> All right, here we go. So,
first off, thank you so much to Speak
Easy and Chris get super chats in. Make
sure Speak Easy by the end of the night
here gets to his goal. He generously sat
here and listened to us pratt on about
art for six [__] hours. So, the least
we could do is make sure that he
achieves his goal tonight. So, please,
please, please head over to Speak
Easyy's channel and make sure you're
getting it. By the way, send money to me
and Chris as well. Um, this debate
started off I could not understand my
heavily accented opponent and I thought
that that the topic was is o u ght
objective. So, more of like a
conversation about the concept of truth.
And so it wasn't until like a minute at
the end of his closing statement that I
realized it was is art objective. And
then I mistakenly assumed it was talking
about the value of art and whether or
not it's good. As to the question
specifically, uh his topic was that art
ought to be deter defined in as purely
objective. And I think that he's loses
this debate for two reasons. And I think
that he knows it deep down as well. He
concedes that if the prompt is not
possible that he should lose. And he
also conceds that it's impossible to get
subjectivity out of it. And this is for
two reasons. One is because what he's
considering objective measures. For
example, he says there are objective
things we could see in different forms
of art like music. And so to objectively
determine whether or not it is art and
in his definition to be art, it has to
be the top of the top. So all songs are
songs but only the top 5 to 10% are art.
That's his interpretation. And he says
well that the way we would decide that
is through objective measures like
rhythm, like tone, like pitch. But the
problem is these are things that exist.
The concept of pitch and rhythm exist.
But there is no objective quality of
what makes something top 5 to 10% of
pitch of rhythm etc. In fact, if we had
five of the biggest experts in the world
right now and we asked them which of
these 10 songs has the best rhythm,
we're likely to get vastly different
answers from each one of them. So in
order to pick out the cream of the crop
from them in an objective way, the very
metrics themselves aren't really
objective. Secondly, even if he would
win that somehow those measures are
objective, the problem is the way we
would apply those is subjectively. In
other words, if we all agreed, yes, the
objective metrics we're looking at, what
is best for a song is tone and tamper
and rhythm and pitch. These are the
objective metrics we're looking for. We
may each decide to put different values
on the importance of each of those
things. Perhaps one expert thinks that
tonality is the most important thing
with the song. Another expert might
think that uniqueness. And so based on
this same criteria, people are looking
at objective metrics and still massively
disagreeing on what the top 5 to 10%
that would be considered art would be. I
liken this to professional football.
When we're deciding like who is the best
quarterback or who deserves to be in the
Hall of Fame, we're all looking at the
best objective statics stats imaginable,
how many touchdowns did you throw, etc.
And yet, even though all of these
measures are basically objective, the
truth is that we still can't decide how
to interpret those objective measures
without subjectivity.
Now, furthermore, I asked him to sort of
define the utility as to why we would
want to change as he acknowledges we
don't currently use the definition of
art he's suggesting. In order to change
language, we must have a positive reason
to do so. He doesn't really have one. He
complains about right now the experts
that determine what is art are [__]
trash and modern art sucks. Totally
agree. It's not going to have a
disagreement for me. However, there's no
reason that just changing the word art,
which he says we would have to then
appeal to experts to use objective
metrics to tell what is art. In effect,
we would still have the same shitty art.
It would just be we would arbitrarily
call some of it art and some of it not.
And the experts that currently say the
top art would continue to say that's THE
ONLY ART. AND GUESS WHAT? THAT art is
[__] SO IT wouldn't solve that. In
fact, quite to the contrary. Take the
music industry. For me right now, some
of the best music going on are from
artists that barely get any radio play
or barely get any Spotify. They ain't
winning awards at the Grammys. So
therefore, the quote experts that
society's decided upon don't think this
would qualify as art as it's not in the
top 5 to 10% of these sort of
industries. And so now instead of just
being like, well, this is fantastic art
that just isn't getting recognition, WE
WOULD ALL ABLIDE TO SAY IT'S NOT EVEN
ART. IT'S NOT art because the experts
don't say it's art. This would give more
of an appeal to the very institutions
that he's claiming to dislike. NOW HE
JUST SAYS, "BUT I DON'T LIKE THESE YOU
AND NOT EVERYONE could claim to be an
expert and an expert. You have to have
CERTAIN CRITERIA." YEAH, BUT THE CURRENT
ARTISTS DO BECAUSE ACADEMIA and all
these places where we train artists has
been overran by these part postmodernist
scumbags. SO THEY DO HAVE THE
CREDENTIALS. They do. THE PEOPLE THAT
THINK JACKSON POLLOCK IS ART HAVE BEEN
RUNNING THE ART scene for 70 [__]
years. So all the people CREDENTIALED AS
THE BEST ART CRITICS, THE BEST ARTISTS
are all people that believe in this sort
of postmodern art. So he's not doing
anything to solve this problem and in
fact it makes it worse. And also the
problem is solved in the status quo. We
can call it art AND SAY IT'S [__] DOG
[__] SO WHAT? IT'S NOT LIKE USING THE
TERM ART itself implies some sort of
value that makes it meaningful or not.
he can't give an rationale for why that
would be the case. Then we get into
conversations of why is it specifically
humans? It's not really an important
part of the debate, but I think it shows
the capriccious and arbitrary nature of
the definition. And when you're
suggesting changing the definition of a
word, I don't think it should be
capriccious or arbitrary. At the end of
the day, I think that there's no good
reason that we would be able to do what
he suggested or even to attempt to do
it. And even if you did, it would be
impossible. He concedes in this debate.
If it's impossible to achieve the
outcome, then the prompt is bad. It is
impossible to have a quote purely
objective metric from experts TO
DETERMINE THE TOP 5 TO 10% OF WHAT WE
CALL ART TODAY. It is not possible to do
that without subjectivity. The end. All
of the lip service of but math is
subjective interpretation. No, there are
objective measurable truths with math.
Those things ARE OBJECTIVELY MEASURABLE.
THAT IS not the case with art. If you
ask five carpenters to measure a piece
of wood, they're all going to get just
about the same answer. If you ask five
experts in the music industry to pick
out the best five songs with rhythm,
they're going to pick five different
songs. It shows the subjective nature of
this, and it shows that not only will
his plan not be doable, but it makes
things worse, which is a reason that you
should prefer me in my opinion in this
debate. Though it was a pleasure, and I
thoroughly enjoyed it.
>> All right. Thank you for that closing
statement. And uh Chris, whenever you're
ready, go ahead and uh give us your
closing.
>> All right. So, what what I started off
saying is we we we sit we sit in a in a
in a in a crux as a society, right?
Where we we we sit with a societ a
society that even with regards to things
like biology, we have people saying that
a man can be a woman. And these are
objective things that most of us would
agree is objective. But for some reason,
we're sitting in a society where we are
dealing with people giving subjective
determinations to these things. And we
are on the conservative or the religious
spectrum telling them you're wrong,
you're wrong, you're wrong, and these
things are objective. Yes, I understand
we live in a society that has deemed art
as some kind of subjective emotion based
um my feelings type of [__] Um, me as a
bluecollar person, a craftsman that
worked in fine art, uh, I saw that the
the the complete deterioration of these
institutions, what was held up as
something, and Rob made a very good
point with my human argument, and I will
be changing my definition to something
that contains God's essence being or or
or wording it in a way where we I will
include God next time into So thank you
for that. But yes, I will change that.
But yes, I believe because uh God is the
ultimate creator. Human beings coming
from that higher order um we are imbued
with a small hint of of that essence
being able to have this need to create.
Um it's why that was in my definition.
So yes, no, I do not think machines will
ever make art and that that is
ridiculous and I will die on that hill
and and AI sucks. [__] AI clanker
bastards socket sucking wirebacks
bastards they eat electricity so I will
not listen to them. Um and um but but on
that though with with things like art we
we brought up timing, tempo, these
things we can use a guitar tuner to test
pitch. We can look at all of these
objective metrics when when we make
determinations of is something at this
higher tier. I I understand we use art
as an arbitrary thing that it just
applies to anything. A child can make
art. Anybody can make art. I feel like
be why that has become um just normal
normal usage in this word is the same
way um other ridiculous words have
become prevalent in society and and lost
complete meaning. I I did this debate to
to to kind of make an argument for that
art should be in a higher order category
and uh underneath that falls drawings um
songs these kind of things but I I feel
like we should place emphasis on what we
define as art because if that just
blends in into a subject a subjective
nature and ultimately we end up with the
the the kind of conclusion that anything
can be deemed art because there's we we
are not appealing to subjective metrics
that um the definition of art loses all
meaning. Um so yeah, I again want to
thank Rob, absolute legend. 6 hours. And
um hey, if you're on Rob's team and
you're like Chris lost, whatever,
whatever that [__] if if you watching
Rob, it's because he's one of the best
in the field. All right. Okay. So So
shut up. Did my best over here. And I
think I I proposed a good argument. It
will do some tweaking in the future. And
I want to thank Speak Easy for hanging
and enduring this and everybody that
came to watch. Appreciate y'all.
>> All right. Thank you for that closing
statement. Uh so uh you guys uh do you
both got to get to other things now? Is
that uh
>> Well, oh, can I add something? I'm
almost I'm almost at a thousand
subscribers. It'd be really cool. You
don't have to send me money, but at
least if you come and give me a sub, I'd
massively appreciate that. I'm trying to
grow the channel. If I can get like to
the four digits, that'd be cool. I mean,
I got 900, so I'd appreciate that.
>> Yeah, I'll put uh I can stick around for
like 15 minutes speak easy, but then I
got to read my super chats for like 15
and then
>> Oh, that's fine then. That's fine. You
can just go do your super chat. I'll
wrap up.
>> All right. Well, hey, I appreciate both
of you. I really do, Chris. And I put
your chat your channel in my chat and
I'll make sure to send people over
there. So, thank you both.
>> I appreciate that.
>> I'm losing my voice, which is great.
>> I'll see you guys soon. And thank you. I
had to yell at you a little bit, Rob,
and get intense, you know, so you can
you can clip it and make a video, you
know.
>> I thoroughly enjoyed it. So, all right,
guys. We'll see you.
>> Take care.
And everyone in the chat, I just uh
linked uh Chris here in the chat for you
guys, and I'm going to also add it to
the description of the video. Obviously,
I don't do that ahead of time because
that would uh defeat the purpose of the
show. But yeah, Chris, you want to let
them know anything uh else that you got
coming or anything before you go?
>> I mean, I I have some stuff coming. I
don't I don't really want to announce
anything yet until anything's confirmed.
I'll definitely be doing more debates.
I've
>> I've been retired for a bit, Uncle
Speak. You know, I haven't been doing
the debates as much, you know.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I got to get back into it,
though. Well, I have been, but it's more
Discord and, you know, Crucible in there
yelling at the moderators there and
debating with the fellas. It's just not
been online, you know.
>> Yeah. No, this was a good one. I liked
it.
>> Yeah. I appreciate that you hosted us,
man.
>> Yes, sir. All right. Well, anyways,
thank you. Thank you for uh coming
through. Are you going to are you going
to go and continue streaming after?
>> No, no, no. I I'm I'm connected to
yours. So, if you if you can you can you
can um shut mine down. Thank you to
everybody on on on on my side. I I'll
I'll stream tomorrow and say thanks to
everybody.
>> I appreciate y'all because I don't have
control over the stream. So, you cut it
off.
>> I just didn't know if maybe you were
going to go start up another one or
something. So, I was going to say if you
were I would have
>> I mean, dude, it's 10 a.m. Friday
morning for me.
>> All right. All right, no worries. We'll
see you later then.
>> Thanks, man. I appreciate it.
>> Take care. Take care. And everyone in
the chat, I I want to say that uh first
off, that right there is going to wrap
up tonight's No Prep debate. Okay. Um
everybody
huge thank you to uh the obviously to
both our debaters Rob for coming through
and uh for Chris for coming through and
enduring a 6h hour open floor with the
one and only Rob No. All right. Um
not many can do that. Okay. So make sure
you guys go give him the praises he
deserves for that. Okay. I linked the
channel. I'm going to do it again for
everyone there. Go sub up. Um, thank you
to everyone in the chat for watching,
engaging, supporting the show. Uh,
special thank you to everyone who sent
super chats. You know, that support is
what helps keep this going. Uh, you
know, like I said, it's always if time
and energy will allow uh for it to get
to super chat questions. So, anyone who
had a question, you know, I do uh I am I
do feel for you when we don't get to do
that. Normally we have every other
episode we have, but Rob had things to
do and we went pretty late tonight. I'm
losing my voice. I wasn't even talking.
It's cuz I'm getting sick, though. Um,
the weather's been getting warmer again,
so the cold, the warm, it's going to
mess with me. Uh,
also
if you think you can take on Rob in a No
Prep debate, we're always looking for
challengers, okay? So, make sure you
join the Discord at discord.gg/bearcave.
All right? And let us know uh you're
ready to step in with prep while Rob
gets none. All right. Um, nor prep
debate's going to air at least twice a
month on Thursdays. All right. Um,
if if we get more people challenging,
uh, we'll bump it up, but for now it's
twice a month. Um,
but uh, yeah. Uh, tomorrow we have uh,
verbal combat. Of course, everybody, if
uh you guys don't know, you should know
about verbal combat. Okay. Open panel
blood sport debate. Come in uh debate
one of the, you know, five to 10 or if
all five to 10 topics. Survive the
night, win some cash, get a verbal
combat character, win some bragging
rights, right? And be verbal combat
champion. All right. Um,
and then Saturday I have a debate as
well. I'm going to be debating on
Saturday. Uh, you know, all this hosting
debates has got me super itching to get
into one again. Okay. So
um,
you know, I got to do it. And then I
have some really like listen next week's
uh Nor Prep.
It's going to be a nice one. All right.
I have a a really good opponent lined
up. They all have been great. All right.
But this is going to be I expect I
expect a lot of blood sports next week.
Let me just put it that way. I expect a
lot of blood sports next week. All
right.
Uh it should get it should get real
turned up
and uh I have some other things in
planned for next week. Plus we got um we
already have the Marte versus Vigilante
lined up. I'm lining up a couple other
ones. Um
it's it's getting, you know, a lot of
people are getting a little I think
people are getting a little uh scared of
certain debaters because I have a lot of
people turning down certain things now.
You know, at first everyone was so
excited to debate each other. Now, I
think some of y'all are getting a little
bit worried. You don't want to look bad.
Listen, you got to you can only sharpen
your iron if you get in with the best of
them. All right.
So,
um
let me see here. I am going to be
sending my chat over to um Terak. I
think Terak's streaming, right? Yeah,
he's streaming already. So, I'm going to
be sending my chat over to Terak. So,
anyone who uh
is sticking around and go for the raid.
All right. Make sure you guys drop some
bears and some likes over there for
Terak when you guys get in.
Um
even if you're not going to stay, just
drop a like before you leave. You know,
it's free. It's free to do. It's free to
do and it helps. Um, let me see here.
There he is.
I think he's doing a wheel of madness,
too. Look at that. Wheel of madness.
There you go. You guys should have some
fun with that one. Should have some fun
with that.
All right, guys. Listen,
like always. All right. Like I always
tell you, it could be 30 in the chat.
All right. It could be 2,000
in the chat. Best chat on YouTube. Hands
[__] down. All right. I love you
guys. God bless you all. Have a
beautiful uh morning, evening, night, uh
whatever it is, wherever you're at. All
right.
Um is easy. Is there a place in Discord
where I can drop open challenges on
topics I want? Send them to me, bro.
Send them to me.
You can drop them in the My World views
place, but yeah, send them to me.
And uh that makes it so much easier if
you guys send me topics you want to
debate. It makes it easier for me to
find the matchups for you cuz like
normally I'm just finding a topic that I
think is a good topic and I'm hitting up
people what's your opinion on this and
then I'm matching them up.
So if you tell me what you want so much
better.
Tell me what you want. What you really
really want.
Oh [__] Oh sorry. Yes. And I'm when I
wrap this up, it will um it will wrap
yours up, too, Chris. Um I think Chris
said he was uh
he's going to go get his day started.
It's 10:00 a.m. there, so it makes
sense.
Uh but everyone over there as well,
shout out to you all. Thank you all for
coming in and joining us tonight. It's
been a It's been a great night. again.
It could be 2,000, it can be 30 in the
chat. Best chat on YouTube, hands
[__] down. All right. Love you guys.
God bless you all. And uh well, for now,
>> this is SPART
SPARTANS,
WHAT IS YOUR PROFESSION?